africa_benin_activities.html:  Activities  Benin is a perfect destination for those seeking a facinating glimpse into a complex culture. As far as organised tourist programs are concerned, though, it's pretty light-on. For a low-key safari experience, head to the far-north to Pendjari Park and W Park. Pendjari is more developed for tourists than W, and is only open between mid-December and mid-May. The park contains elephants, hippos, buffalo and lions, but you'll be lucky if you see more than a few forlorn-looking antelope, a couple of wart hogs and maybe a monkey or three.  The coastline is spectacular, and especially well suited to swimming. Four km (2.5mi) east from the centre of Cotonou is the best urban beach. It's safe, clean and regularly crowded. Head west for 40km (25mi) and you'll find the absolutely perfect beach at Ouidah (which just happens to be the voodoo capital of Benin). Just a little better than perfect, and a mere 40km (25mi) further along the road, is Grand Popo. The beaches are quite safe, the sand is a spectacular white and the water clear and clean.  
africa_benin_attractions.html:  Attractions  Officially the capital, the government long ago moved itself and most of its business 32km (20mi) west to Cotonou. Nevertheless, this town of some 180,000 people remains a beautiful and historical place. Its proximity to the Nigerian border gives the appearance that more is going on than actually is, though there are still some hot spots, such as the Grand Marche d'Adjara where you can buy drums, cloth, baskets and the best pottery in Benin. The Musee Ethnographique de Porto Novo has a great collection of Yoruba artefacts. You can also visit the ornate Brazilian-style church, now a mosque.  
africa_benin_environment.html:  Environment  Benin is located in West Africa, and covers a land area of 110,620 sq km (44,000 sq mi). The country is a long stretch of land perpendicular to the Coast of the Gulf of Guinea. It is bordered on the north by Burkina Faso and the Republic of Niger, on the east by the Federal Republic of Nigeria and on the west by the Republic of Togo. The coastline is 124km (77mi) long across the south, with the land stretching north-south for 672km (420mi) from the Niger River to the Bight of Benin. It is about two-thirds the size of Portugal and a fraction smaller than Pennsylvania.  The country is divided into five natural regions: a coastal area; a plateau zone called "la terre de barre"; another plateau with wooded savannah; a hilly region in the northwest (the Atakora), which contains the water reservoir for Benin and Niger; and the fertile Niger plains in the northeast. In the south, cultivated land including immense palmgroves and coconut plantations lines the coast.  
africa_benin_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: 15 and 30-day visas are available. Many west and central African nationals don't require a visa. For applications or extensions, be sure to have a fist full of photos.Health risks: Yellow fever vaccination certificates are required for entry. Malaria is a serious risk. All water should be boiled or chemically treated, with boiling. This is also recommended for milk, which is not pasteurised. Avoid all other dairy products and ensure meat and fish are well cooked. Medical care is limited. In April 2000 an outbreak of meningitis was reported in northern Benin. The localities of Bembereke, Gogounou and Sinende in the Borgou district. A vaccination campaign was launched to prevent the further spread of the disease, which is hitting children and young adults most severely.Time: GMT/UTC plus one hourElectricity:220 VWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Benin has two climates. The south has a tropical climate with little range in maximum temperatures, which average 28 C (82 F). The dry season is from December to April. In the north, abutting the Sahel, the humidity is much lower, but the temperatures can be much hotter. For the best of both worlds, December to March is probably the most comfortable window of opportunity. The main celebration day, National Day falls on 1 August, and is a good time to be in Cotonou, the biggest city, or the capital Porto Novo.     Events  The big celebrations in Benin occur on Martyr's Day (16 January), which commemorates a mercenary attack on Cotonou, Independence Day (1 August), National Day (30 November) and Harvest Day (31 December). Travellers should also inquire at the tourist office about the on-again off-again International Festival of Voodoo, held in Abomey.    
africa_benin_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  On the north-western border with Togo is the town of Bokoumbe. On the way from nearby Natitingou, you will pass the tallest mountain in Benin, and once there you will experience all the wonders of a west African trading village. The Bokoumbe market is regarded as perhaps the best such market in the country. It is as much a social event for people from the region as it is a trading point for market produce, and beer and fun are in abundance. You can buy rare, authentic carvings and smoking pipes as well as fabulous fresh produce. Every four years or so, the town is gripped by the Whipping Festival, where young men run around naked with whips beating up other young men from neighbouring villages. It is, of course, a rite of passage. Bokoumbe is 43km (27mi) south-west of Natitingou and about 600km (370mi) from Cotonou. The trip will take about nine hours.  
africa_botswana_activities.html:  Activities   Safari means 'we go' in Swahili, and nearly everyone who visits southern Africa plans on at least one 'go', as there's no better way to experience the region's spectacular wildlife. Usually, visitors do their spotting from a swanky 4WD, but it's also possible to do it on horseback rides. Most trips through the Okavango Delta include some hiking on the palm islands, and the Tsodilo Hills are particularly attractive for bushwalking. You can also go fishing in the Okavango.  
africa_botswana_attractions.html:  Attractions  It's pushing the definition to label Gaborone an attraction, but as you'll probably have to pass through here on your way to someplace more attractive, it's worth knowing a little about Botswana's capital. The first thing to know is that it's not somewhere you'll want to linger - distances in Gaborone are long and uninteresting, there's heavy traffic, no footpaths and the city is a mess of suburbs and highrises. And as there's no central business district, the action tends to gravitate to suburban malls. If Los Angeles without the glitz sounds like your cup of tea, visit Gaborone.  Gaborone's premier attraction is the National Museum & Art Gallery, offering the usual collection of historic artefacts and stuffed animals. The museum's displays of San culture thoroughly cover the desert dwellers, while other ethnographic installations provide background on Botswana's diverse cultural groups. The small national gallery is a repository for both traditional and modern African and European pieces, including some San artwork.  The Gaborone Game Reserve is designed for those who want a safari to go. About a kilometre outside Gaborone, the reserve is really just a bunch of antelopes and a fenced-in white rhino. If you'd rather do your range roving au naturel, you can take a horseback safari into the scrubby bush north-west of Gaborone. There are several places to stay in Gaborone, but very few budget options. Gaborone lies midway along Botswana's south-eastern border with South Africa.  
africa_botswana_environment.html:  Environment  Smack in the centre of southern Africa, landlocked Botswana extends over 1100km (680mi) from north to south and 960km (595mi) from east to west, occupying an area about the same size as France or a little smaller than Texas. It's bounded on the south by South Africa, which lies across the Limpopo and Molopo Rivers. In the north-east is Zimbabwe, while Namibia wraps around the country's western and northern frontiers. At Kazungula in Botswana's far north, four countries - Botswana, Zimbabwe, Zambia and Namibia - meet at a single point midstream in the Zambezi River. Botswana's landscape is almost uniformly flat - the semiarid Kalahari covers nearly 85% of the country, including the entire central and south-western regions. In the north-west, the Okavango River flows in from Namibia and soaks into the sands, creating 15,000 sq km (5850 sq mi) of convoluted channels and islands that comprise the Okavango Delta.  Botswana's dry lands boast more than 70 species of snakes, including three species of spitting cobra. Poisonous boomslangs (Afrikaans for tree snake) and vine snakes are common in the Okavango, but they generally don't bother humans. Although this part of southern Africa offers an adequate sampling of LBJs ('little brown jobs'), it is also home to an array of colourful and exotic birdlife. Among them are the dandified crowned crane; the grey lourie, with its sulky 'go-away' call; the stunning lilac-breasted roller; and the dour secretary bird, which trounces snakes by hopping up and down on them like a secretary banging on a typewriter. Botswana's wonderful national parks and reserves are home to an amazing variety of wildlife, including elephant, cheetah, hunting dog, leopard, hyena, giraffe, hippopotamus and zebra.  Most of Botswana is covered by savanna - either acacia or low thorn scrub. The country's only deciduous mopane forests are in the north-east - there are stands of commercial timber as well as both mongonga and marula trees, whose edible nuts once served as staple foods for the San. The soft wood of the marula is used in local crafts, and its fruit goes into a local beer.  Although it straddles the Tropic of Capricorn, Botswana experiences extremes in temperature. Days are normally clear, warm and sunny, but nights range from cool to bitterly cold. In the Kalahari, subfreezing nighttime temperatures are normal in June and July; where there's enough humidity, frosts are common. Botswana is primarily a dry country, but a summer rainy season lasts roughly from November to March. From late May to August, rain is rare anywhere in the country.  
africa_botswana_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: No visa is required for visits of up to 90 days for citizens of most Commonwealth countries, most European countries, Israel, Japan, South Africa & the USA.Health risks: malariaTime: GMT/UTC plus two hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: metric When to Go  Winter (April through August) is a good time to visit Botswana, as the days are generally pleasant and the wildlife never wanders far from water sources. Bear in mind, however, that this is also the time of European, North American and South African school holidays, so things can get a bit crowded. In general, June, early July and mid to late September are the least crowded times to visit. Summer isn't the best time to hit the back roads, enjoy wildlife viewing or explore the Okavango, as prolonged rains may render sandy roads uncrossable, and animals disperse when water is abundant.     Events  Botswanans enjoy public holidays on New Year's Day and the day after, at Easter, Ascension Day (in April or May), and Labor Day (1 May), as well as a two-day sleep-in around President's Day in July. Independence Day is celebrated on 30 September and the day following, and there are three public holidays over Christmas: Christmas Day, Boxing Day and the day after Boxing Day, on 25, 26 and 27 December, respectively.    
africa_botswana_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Like Australia's Uluru, these lonely chunks of rock rise abruptly from a rippled, oceanlike expanse of desert. They are imbued with myth, legend and spiritual significance for both the Makoko and Dzucwa San, who see the hills as the site of creation itself. Laurens van der Post immortalised Tsodilo as the Slippery Hills - when he visited here his cameras jammed, his tape recorders stopped working and he was attacked by swarms of bees, apparently because he had offended the spirits of Tsodilo.  Tsodilo has been inhabited by ancestors of the San for up to 35,000 years, and the site has over 3500 rock paintings. These minimalist representations of animals, people and geomorphic designs may have been intended as little more than doodles, but it's more tempting to envision a succession of ancient Michelangelos straining upwards to produce masterly works. The majority are executed in ochres or whites and were probably produced by the San and later the Bantu people. Among the most interesting paintings are a zebra, a whale, a penguin, a family of rhino and a dancing crowd of sexually excited men.  There are no shops or services in the San or Mbukushu village, but you can camp around the base of the hills, and there's water available from a bore well. A visitors' centre and camp sites with facilities are being built. The hills are in the north-west of the country, about 800km (500mi) from Gaborone, and you can fly here or drive - the road is excruciating but unforgettable.  
africa_burkina_faso_activities.html:  Activities  The southwest of Burkina Faso, around Banfora, offers a number of hiking opportunities, particularly around the rock formations and waterfalls of Sindou. It's also a great area for motor bike, mobylette or bicycle tours (weather permitting). The area around the Karfiguela waterfalls is suitable for camping. Outdoor accommodation makes a nice change and the scenery is spectacular, particularly in the rainy season.  
africa_burkina_faso_attractions.html:  Attractions  Burkina Faso's capital, Ouagadougou (or Ouaga), lies smack bang in the middle of the country, standing at the crossroads of several ancient trade routes. It's more a large country town than a megalopolis; the core central area is easily covered on foot. There's not a hell of a lot to see, or visit, in Ouagadougou but what it lacks in epic monuments and grand buildings it makes up for in wide, shady boulevards, a relaxed atmosphere and friendly smiles. Burkinabes are gregarious people, always ready for a laugh and a chat over coffee, and hospitality is one of the city's trademarks. Unlike many other Sahelian cities, Ouagadougou is not predominantly Muslim so it's also got a lively nightclub scene. A number of reasonably cheap internet cafes are popping up in Ouaga making it a pretty good place to get online.  Aimless ambling is a pleasant pastime in Ouagadougou. The cathedral, near the Moro-Naba Palace, is the largest church in the interior of West Africa. Ouagadougou's Grande Marche is always worth a visit. It's in the centre of town and has a number of great stalls upstairs.  The main trading centre is inside a triangle, with the train station at the northern point, the Presidential Palace at the eastern point and the cathedral at the southern point. Nelson Mandela Avenue bisects the top half of the triangle before terminating at a large roundabout, the Place des Nations Unies. Most of the major streets branch off from the roundabout like spokes on a wheel. Places to stay and eat are scattered evenly throughout the triangle.  
africa_burkina_faso_environment.html:  Environment  Burkina Faso (formerly Upper Volta), shaped like a pair of welder's goggles, sits at the edge of the Sahel, locked in by Benin, Togo and Ghana to the southeast, C te d'Ivoire to the south, Mali to the west and Niger to the north. At about twice the size of Colorado, it's one of the smallest territories in West Africa but one of the most heavily populated. Distribution is uneven and sketchy; large tracts of land in the north are almost deserted, while the south and central regions are bursting at the seams.  Most of Burkina is flat, arid and scrubby. To the north the vegetation thins out to sandy dunes as it approaches the Sahara. Conversely, the south opens up into forests and sugar cane fields and in the east there are rolling plateaus and green woodlands. The three major rivers of Burkina Faso, the Mahoun (Black Volta), Nazinon (Red Volta) and Nakanbe (White Volta), drain the central plateau in a southerly and easterly direction respectively.  Deforestation and desertification are a major threat to Burkina Faso, brought about through an unholy combination of drought, rapid population growth, overgrazing, and severe economic woes. The result is a 70km (43mi) swathe of land around the capital city, Ouagadougou, that's completely devoid of trees. The land has been picked clean as a bone by residents using the woods as their prime energy source. Some parks and reserves have survived this onslaught. Throughout the major national parks you can still see elephants, hippopotamuses, buffalo, antelope and crocodiles.  The climate in Burkina Faso is similar to other Sahel countries with two distinct seasons. The dry season lasts from November to May, and the wet season from June through to October. The hottest time of the year is between March and June, and dusty Harmattan winds blow incessantly between December and February, turning the landscape hazy and unphotogenic, and people sour, and irritable.  
africa_burkina_faso_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are required for all except citizens of the Economic Community of West African States (ECWAS).Health risks: Malaria is a serious problem in Burkina Faso. Yellow fever vaccinations are required and proof of a meningitis shot is also useful - especially when there's an epidemic.Time:GMT/UTCElectricity:220V, 50HzWeights & measures:Metric When to Go  As with most of West Africa, the best time to go is weather related. November to February are the cooler months of the year, although the dusty Harmattan winds might temper your enthusiasm between the months of December and February. If you're going in an odd-numbered year, the film festival starts in late February, and if in an even year, the cultural festival begins early April.     Events  If you're in Burkina Faso in an odd-numbered year, don't miss the FESPACO film festival. Ouagadougou tarts itself up and puts on its metaphorical lippy to host this festival that showcases up-and-coming West African film makers. Though none of the participants have Spielbergian fame, a number of FESPACO-winning directors have gone on to collect awards in the more prestigious categories of the Cannes Film Festival. The festival usually begins the last Saturday in February. In even-numbered years Burkina Faso's second largest city, Bobo-Dioulasso, hosts La Semaine Nationale de la Culture. Both traditional and contemporary forms of music, dance and theatre, meet and mix in this week long cultural extravaganza. It begins the last week in April.  Every Friday morning, the Moro-Naba emerges from his palace in scarlet robes and, with due pomp and circumstance, re-enacts what in French is lyrically called  la ceremonie du Nabayius Gou and in English, somewhat more phlegmatically, 'the false departure of the emperor.' In a nutshell, the story is of a Mossi emperor who mounted his horse preparatory to going off to war, changed his mind, dismounted, and re-entered the palace. It seems a rather ignominious moment to immortalise by daily repeats, but there are nuances and subtleties to the story, and to a Burkinabe it symbolises the survival struggle of the Mossi monarchy.    
africa_burkina_faso_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Gorom-Gorom, in the northeast of Burkina Faso, is a typical Sahelian town, with its edges smudged into a sea of sand dunes and wide windswept spaces. This is where civilisation runs out of puff. From here on in it's all lonely desert dunes and whistling silences. The accommodation in Gorom-Gorom is traditional Sudanese style, so it's easy to immerse yourself in the ambience of Sahelian life. The largely nomadic population are mainly Tuaregs (or 'blue men of the desert'), Peuls, Maures, and Songha s.  The Gorom market is unquestionably the most colourful and interesting in Burkina Faso, if not the Sahel, and may well be the country's largest. The mixing and melding of the different Sahelian and Saharian ethnic groups make it a sight worth seeing. There's Tuareg herders in indigo robes; Peul herders and Songha farmers in bright yellow and red turbans; Peul women with brightly couloured boubous (robes), intricately braided, beaded, and bejewelled hairdos, and large silver and gold hooped earrings. The men wear richly decorated leather belts and elaborate silver swords. And that's without even beginning to describe the intriguing desert food and desert crafts for sale.  Gorom-Gorom is about 290km (180mi) north east of Ouagadougou and can be reached by bus or bushtaxi/minibus.  
africa_cairo_activities.html:  Activities  Feluccas, the ancient broad-sail boats seen all along the Nile, can be hired out by the hour from several places along the Corniche, and are great for a sunset cruise after a hard day's sightseeing. Saddling up for a horseback ride out by the Pyramids, especially in the evening, is a great way to escape the clamour of Cairo, but be sure to hire only a healthy horse - many aren't fit to ride. Billiards, snooker and tenpin bowling have really taken off in Cairo in a big way. If you've ever fancied baring your midriff and making it ripple then there is no shortage of belly-dance teachers around town. There are also plenty of places to see a belly-dancing display.  There isn't much greenery in Cairo, but if you can find it, a stroll among the all-too-rare foliage has something going for it. Try the Nady al-Qahira Garden, Orman Botanical Gardens, zoo, Manial Palace or Gezira Club. Despite the heat, lack of land and water shortage, golf is a recent addition to Cairo's outdoor pursuits. If the heat and terrifying drivers don't put you off , the Cairo Cyclists club organises cycling events. Swimming is a great way to cool off but finding a pool isn't easy (or cheap); try a hotel pool - the Forte Grande near the Pyramids and Le Meridien Cairo are both worth splashing out for. If all else fails, take a course: Arabic, Egyptology and Islamic history and religion are on offer at a range of institutions. Sometimes being a spectator is as energetic as you want to get in the heat; if so, you can see Sufi dancing, football matches and horse-racing.  
africa_cairo_attractions.html:  Attractions  As the city's main square and focal point, Midan Tahrir is badly lacking in splendour. Still, most visitors end up spending a lot of time here because it's home to the Egyptian Museum and central to many hotels. Chief of these is the first modern hotel to be built in Cairo, the Nile Hilton. Although aged and surpassed in luxury and amenities by the countless five-star hotels built since, the hotel remains a vibrant favourite with locals for lunch and as a wedding venue. Nearby, the upper floor of the Ali Baba Cafeteria, near the American University in Cairo is a good place to watch the goings-on outside.  Northeast of Midan Tahrir, within the triangle of Tahrir, Midan Ramses and Midan Ataba, is Downtown. Centred on Midan Talaat Harb, Downtown is the noisy, busy unmistakeable commercial heart of Cairo. Its streets are packed with glitzy shops and above is a beehive of countless thousands of small, dusty businesses. Much grand architecture remains but the character of the area has changed considerably from its cosmopolitan, cafe-society heyday. Look up at the surviving architectural gems as you walk around to catch a glimpse of a far more elegant Paris-on-the-Nile-era Cairo. Imagine wide, tree-lined boulevards, tearooms, grand hotels and open-air cafes with dance bands.  Further out, the Manial Palace Museum, built in the early 20th century for an uncle of King Farouk's, has some wonderfully overblown interiors; a thoroughly overstocked Hunting Museum - animal lovers beware; and a private Throne Hall complete with red carpet, gilt furniture and ranked portraits of illustrious forebears.  
africa_cairo_facts.html:  When to Go  Cairo has only two seasons: summer and 'not-summer'. Given the choice, you're far better off visiting during 'not-summer', a period that stretches roughly from September to April or May. January and February (10-20 C/50-68 F) can be overcast with the occasional shower, but the months immediately either side are comfortably warm, with daytime temperatures leavened by breezes. Between March and April, Cairo is occasionally subject to the khamseen, a dry and very dusty wind storm which blows in from the parched Western Desert at up to 150kph (93mph). During summer the city is insufferably hot (35-38 C/95-100 F) and grimy, though the relatively low humidity makes the heat bearable. Well-heeled Cairenes tend to sit out the summer up on the coast in Alexandria.  It's also worth considering the timing of the various Muslim festivals when planning your trip. During Ramadan, the Islamic month of fasting, many businesses work half-days, museums and tourist sites shut early and many restaurants only open after sundown.     Events  Cairo's holidays and festivals are primarily Islamic or Coptic religious celebrations, although all holidays are celebrated equally by the entire population regardless of creed. In addition, moulids, a cross between a funfair and a religious festival, are celebrated with vigour. Lasting about a week, moulids involve Sufi zikrs (trance-like dances), snake charming, mass circumcisions, curing of the sick, sideshows, food and much more. Cairo celebrates three major moulids dedicated to Sayyida Zeinab, Al-Hussein and Imam as-Shafi. Check exact dates with locals.  In February/March the excellent Nitaq Festival brings theatre, poetry, music and art to Downtown Cairo. Each September, the International Experimental Theatre Festival hosts a vast array of international troupes, but loud complaints that censorship effectively stifles any experimentation compete with the applause meters. Come October the Pharaohs' Rally encourages international 4WD teams to tear up the desert around the Pyramids. The Arabic Music Festival in early November presents a raft of classical, traditional and orchestral programs at the Opera House. In early December, the Cairo International Film Festival attracts hordes of Cairenes with supposedly uncensored celluloid screenings of flicks - tickets for anything that hints at shots of exposed flesh sell out immediately.   Public holidays  1 January - New Year's Day 7 January - Coptic Christmas February - Eid al-Adha (the Great Feast) February - First Sunday in Lent March - Ras as-Sana (Islamic New Year's Day) 25 April - Sinai Liberation Day March/April - Easter March/April - Sham an-Nessim (Smell of the Breeze) 1 May - May Day May/June - Moulid an-Nabi (birthday of Mohammed) 23 July - Revolution Day 15 August - Feast of the Assumption 6 October - National Day Oct/Nov - Ramadan Nov/Dec - Eid al-Fitr 26 December - St Stephen's Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to CairoTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
africa_cairo_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  There isn't much left of the former Pharaonic capital of Memphis, 24km (15mi) south of Cairo, although the museum contains a fairly impressive statue of Ramses II. The real reason for heading out here is to see the pyramids, temples and tombs strewn around Saqqara, the heart of Memphis' ancient necropolis, 3km (1.8mi) away from the former capital.  The star attraction here is Zoser's Funerary Complex, dominated by the world's first decent attempt at a pyramid, the Step Pyramid of Zoser. Also of note is the Pyramid & Causeway of Unas, the site of funerary hieroglyphs known as Pyramid Texts. The Serapeum, where sacred Apis bulls were entombed, provides an eerie walk through barely lit galleries to see macabre sarcophagi. The Mastaba of Ti is perhaps the grandest and most detailed private tomb at Saqqara and one of the main sources of knowledge about life in Old Kingdom Egypt.  Saqqara is a great place to play Indiana Jones and explore half-buried ruins surrounded by peaceful desert. You really need to set a whole day, if not two, aside to get even a superficial view of the area, and transport to get around the Saqqara site is essential. It's best to hire a taxi and visit Memphis, Abu Sir, Saqqara and Dahshur.  
africa_cameroon_activities.html:  Activities  The best prospects for hiking in Cameroon are the northern area between the towns of Rumsiki and Mora and the eastern area around Bamenda. Mt Cameroon offers excellent rock climbing, an hour's drive west of Douala. There's also good climbing in Mindif, a park south of the northern town of Maroua, where few have succeeded in mastering a huge rock known as 'le Dent de Mindif'. There's good sunbathing and swimming at the beaches near the southern coastal town Kribi.   Cycling is a good way to travel in rural areas, and it's a great way to meet the locals. Soccer and basketball are immensely popular, and village pick-up games aren't hard to find, especially if you bring your own ball. Jogging is mainly an expat sport, and the notorious Hash House Harriers have been running around Cameroon for decades. Should you fall in with a Hash, be prepared for the heavy drinking that invariably follows every run. Yaounde, Douala, Bamenda and Garoua all have Hash groups; ask around the expat community for the starting point of runs since they change each week.  
africa_cameroon_attractions.html:  Attractions  Once a sleepy colonial capital, Yaounde is now a bustling urban centre of meandering streets and undulating hills, offering an unusually cool climate, excellent museums and really good grilled chicken. Ave Kennedy is the main commercial corridor. At its northern end are the Place Kennedy and the Centre Artisinal, a giant tent filled with local artisans and their handicrafts. The lively African quarters of Messa, Mokolo and Briqueterie, a few kilometres north-west of downtown, are where you'll find many of the city's unlicensed chicken houses, serving the best grilled chicken this side of the C te d'Ivoire.  A few kilometres north of the city centre is the Benedictine Monastery's Musee d'Art Cameroonais, a highlight of any visit to the capital. Despite its small size, it's got one of the best collections of Cameroonian art in the world, including masks, bowls and Bamoun bronze pipes. Even the monastery's chapel is decorated with a beautiful array of local textiles and crafts. The monastery is near the foot of Mt Febe and is accessible by bus or taxi from downtown.  A few kilometres west of downtown is the Quartier Melen, home to the Musee d'Art Negre. The museum's collection includes Bamoun pipes from north-west Cameroon, Baoule textiles from C te d'Ivoire and Congolese-Za rian masks, as well as pieces from Algeria and Ethiopia. Melen is also home to the Paroisse de N'Djong Melen, a church whose open-air Sunday mass you shouldn't miss. For over two hours, a priest recites the mass in Ewondo to the accompaniment of African drumming, dancing and singing.  Yaounde is in the south-western corner of the country, about 200km (124mi) from both the Atlantic Ocean and the southern border.  
africa_cameroon_environment.html:  Environment  About the size of Spain or California and shaped a bit like a boot, Cameroon is bordered by Nigeria to the north and west, Chad and the Central African Republic to the east, Congo, Gabon and Equatorial Guinea to the south and the Atlantic Ocean to the west.  Cameroon is one of the most geographically diverse countries in Africa, comprising three major zones: the northern savannah, the southern and eastern rainforests, and the north-western hill region near Nigeria. Rich volcanic soils near the towns of Bafoussam and Bamenda in the west have permitted much higher rural population densities than elsewhere in the country. The west is coffee and cocoa country and home to nearly a quarter of the population. The hot, dry north is home to Lake Chad, the major game reserves, rocky escarpments and the broad Benoue River.  The country's game reserves teem with elephants, lions, giant eland, bongos, chimpanzees, crocodiles and birds galore. There are a few remaining lowland gorilla families in remote pockets of the underdeveloped south-east.  The variations in rainfall from one region to the next are astounding - from barely enough rain to support agriculture in the extreme north to over 500cm (200in) in the south-west around Mt Cameroon. In the north, the rainy season is from June to September; in the south, light rains in March and April are followed by downpours from May to November. Humidity soars in the south in July and August. The warmest months are March to May, when the average daily high is 30 C (86 F) in Yaounde; Douala is cooler but gets much more rain. During the same period, the north gets up to a scorching 40 C (104 F).  
africa_cameroon_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors need visas, which are good for three months, plus an International Health Certificate showing proof of a yellow fever vaccination within the past 10 years.Health risks: Cholera, diarrhoea, dysentery, fungal infections, giardia, hepatitis, malaria, meningococcal meningitis, typhoid, yellow feverTime: GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity: 110/220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit Cameroon is during the cooler, drier months of November to February. The caveat is the harmattan - the winds that blow sand south from the Sahara and turn skies sandy grey from December to February. On bad days, visibility can be reduced to 1km or even less, delaying or cancelling flights and spoiling views. As bad as this sounds, the May to November rainy season turns Cameroon into a sea of mud and makes travel even more difficult than the harmattan cord.     Events  After New Year's Day, the first major event of the year is the Mt Cameroon Race, held in late January. This 27km (17mi) race up and down the 3000m (10,000ft) mountain is Africa's toughest. The Muslim Feast of Ramadan, which changes dates from year to year, signals the end of a month of daily fasts and is celebrated all over Cameroon, most notably in Foumban, where horse races, processions and dances are part of the festivities. Muslims in northern and western Cameroon also celebrate Tabaski in February or March, when celebrations include a parade of marabouts (wise men and fortune-tellers). The country's major non-religious holiday is the Cameroon National Festival, held on 20 May. The best place to witness it is Maroua. Horses race through the streets of Kumbo, a town in western Cameroon, during Nso Cultural Week, held in mid-November.    
africa_cameroon_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  White sand beaches make Kribi Cameroon's best seaside resort. Aside from some restaurants and a disco, there's little to do in town, but there are some inviting fishing villages nearby with excellent fresh seafood. If you make it during the dry periods of mid-October to November or March to May you'll miss the rain and the crowds of expats from Douala. The best nearby villages are Eboundja (20km/12mi south) and Londji (24km/15mi north); the latter is spread around an immense bay with pristine sand and palm trees. Neither place has amenities, but they're great for lying back and enjoying some grilled fish and palm wine with the locals. Kribi is about two hours south of Douala by bush taxi.  
africa_cape_town_activities.html:  Activities  Cape Town's range of activities together constitute an outdoor thrill seeker's charter. The boom in backpacker accommodation has triggered a boom in organized adventure activities. Abseiling (rappelling) off Table Mountain and Chapman's Peak are very popular. Mountain biking is booming as trails are being developed in many local parks and reserves. Local currents create a wide variety of diving conditions, which are best between June and November. Cage diving for a close-up look at great white sharks is not for the timid. Kloofing is Afrikaans for spelunking and involves climbing, walking, swimming and jumping around in kloofs (cliffs or gorges). The Cape Peninsula has fantastic surfing possibilities for all skill levels. Other sporty options include canoeing, white-water rafting, kayaking, sandboarding and windsurfing. Simply walking around the peninsula's many trails is a great workout. Finally, a harbor cruise on Table Bay should not be missed.  
africa_cape_town_attractions.html:  Attractions  Built to defend Cape Town, this stone-walled castle has not seen action in all its 350 years, unless you count the more recent stormings by hoards of school kids and tourists. It's worth coming for one of the tours, although you can quite easily find your own way around. Besides extensive displays of militaria, some interesting ones on the castle's archeology and the reconstruction of the so-called Dolphin Pool, the highlight is the bulk of the William Feur Collection, which includes some fabulous bits of Cape Dutch furniture, such as a table seating 100, and some more paintings by John Thomas Baines. Also within the Castle grounds are a noted wine shop, a cafe and a good restaurant.  
africa_cape_town_environment.html:  Environment  The ecology and environment around the Cape changed drastically within a few decades of the European invasion. Dense forests that were once home to lion, elephant, hippo, black rhino, buffalo, hyena and leopard vanished, and today none of these wild beasties lurk anywhere near Cape Town.  To replace the forests, early governors encouraged settlers to plant oaks. They found, however, that the kind climate allowed the trees to grow too quickly to produce tough wood. Today, the characteristic tree on Table Mountain is the endemic silver-leafed witteboom. The peninsula's dense foliage (called fynbos or fine bush) is also highly localized.  
africa_cape_town_facts.html:  When to Go  There's not really any best or worst time to visit Cape Town, although different seasons have their advantages. From late December to the end of January accommodation can be hard to find and prices rise. Easter and other school holidays are also busy times. You're more likely to encounter one of the famous southeasterly gales during spring ( September to November), but this might be an attraction, with huge waves rolling up from the Antarctic and pounding the coastline. In winter ( June through August) the weather can be a bit gloomy and, if the wind blows from the snowy peaks inland, chilly. However, there are plenty of clear days and the crowds have gone.     Events  South African public holidays underwent a serious shake-up after the 1994 elections. For example, the Day of the Vow, which marked the massacre of Zulus, has become the Day of Reconciliation (16 December). The officially ignored but widely observed Soweto Day, marking the student uprisings which eventually led to liberation, is now celebrated as Youth Day (16 June).  The Cape Festival used to be held annually in early March, with music from classical to jazz. Whether or not it starts up again has yet to be decided. Perhaps the biggest party in town is put on by the Cape Town Queer Project in mid-December, usually at the River Club. It has a different theme every year, outrageous fancy dress is compulsory and straights are welcome. A food and wine festival is held in Stellenbosch in October; Calvina has a Meat Festival in August; and Hermanus holds a Whale Festival in late September or early October. The university suburb of Observatory has a weekend festival/street party sometime in spring.    
africa_cape_town_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Proclaimed a UN World Heritage Site in 1999, Robben Island is unmissable. Most likely you will have to endure crowds and being hustled around on a guided tour - such is the price of the island's infamy. Still you must go to see this shrine to Struggle. Used as a prison from the early days of the VOC right up until the first years of majority rule, Robben Island's most famous involuntary resident was Nelson Mandela. You will learn much of what happened to other inmates as well, since one will be leading your tour. The guides are happy to answer questions and, although some understandably remain bitter, as a whole this is the best demonstration of reconciliation you could hope to see in Cape Town.  
africa_cape_verde_activities.html:  Activities  Cape Verde's many hilly islands offer good hiking. One of the best places for a short trek is the hilly green interior of Santo Ant o Island. The main hike is up Ribeira Grande Mountain, some 10km (6mi) south of the town of Ribeira Grande, which is on the north-eastern coast. Getting to the top and back takes most of a day. Brava and S o Vicente also have some excellent hikes.  
africa_cape_verde_attractions.html:  Attractions  S o Tiago is the main island and home to the capital, Praia. The city isn't the most beautiful of the archipelago's two cities (this distinction belongs to Mindelo), but it's a pleasant place, with its centre perched on a rocky plateau known as Plat. This central area is surrounded by urban sprawl in three directions. The city's two beaches, Praia Mar and Quebra-Canela, are west of the centre.  For a half-day trip out of Praia, go to the Cidade Velha (Old City), the first town built by the Portuguese on the islands. There are great views of the village on the climb up to Fort Real de S o Felipe. The Old City is about 10km (6mi) west of Praia. Some 20km (12mi) inland from Praia, the village of S o Domingos is the closest green agricultural valley to the capital. There are one or two shops selling handicrafts. At the northern end of S o Tiago is the island's second largest settlement, Tarrafal, which is famous for its beaches. It can be reached by chartered bus from Praia.  
africa_cape_verde_environment.html:  Environment  The Cape Verde islands are in the Atlantic Ocean, 620km (385mi) west of West Africa's coast at Mauritania. There are 10 major islands (9 of them inhabited) and 5 islets, all of volcanic origin and grouped into the Barlavento (Windward) group (Santo Ant o, S o Vicente, Santa Luzia, Ilheu Branco, Ilheu Raso, S o Nicolau, Sal and Boa Vista) to the north and the Sotavento (Leeward) group (Maio, S o Tiago, Fogo and Brava) to the south.  The interior of the main island, S o Tiago, is mountainous, and Fogo has the islands' highest peak, Mt Fogo (2840m/9320ft). Fogo was rocked by a volcanic eruption in 1995; there have been seven such eruptions since 1760. Many of the islands are arid and hilly, and cultivation of the hillsides has caused widespread soil erosion. Santo Ant o has the highest rainfall and tends to be much greener than the other islands.  Common plants in the islands include rhododendrons, the fire tree, dragon tree, marmulano, corn plant and the Florida Beauty dracaena.  Among the islands' most colourful fauna are its coral and fish, especially in the waters around Sal, where you'll see parrot fish, barracuda and moray eels. You might also spot blue and humpback whales, the narrow-snouted dolphin, harbour porpoise and loggerhead, green and hawksbill turtles. The Raza Island lark, Cape Verde petrel, brown booby, frigatebird, tropicbird and Cape Verde warbler are among the birds winging around the archipelago. Creepy crawlies include the Cape Verde skink and the giant Cape Verde gecko.  Cape Verde has the coolest temperatures of any country in West Africa. Daily highs range from 20 C (68 F) to around 29 C (84 F) from August to October, when there can also be rainstorms. Due to ocean currents, the sea is also considerably chillier than along the West African coast.  
africa_cape_verde_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: all visitors need visasHealth risks: yellow feverTime: GMT/UTC minus 1 hourElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: metric When to Go  The best time to visit Cape Verde is from August to October, when the weather is pleasantly warm, though the winds are pretty stiff year round, so bring a windcheater. The rest of the year is much cooler.     Events  Cape Verde has one of Africa's most vibrant Carnival celebrations. It's the country's major party, with street parades in February in Praia and Mindelo. On S o Tiago and Fogo, Tabanka is celebrated in May and June and marked by music and abstinence. Each island also has its own festival, with the party going on for about a week.    
africa_cape_verde_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Santo Ant o, just north of S o Vicente, is one of the most beautiful islands and well worth a visit. The greenest island in the archipelago, it's one of the few places where you'll see lots of trees. None of the towns on the island is particularly interesting, but what's special is the hilly and relatively lush interior; hikers will love it. There are flights between Santo Ant o and Mindelo (on S o Vicente) three times a week; you can connect at Mindelo with flights to Praia. There's also a ferry between the island and Mindelo; the trip takes about an hour each way, but even on this short stretch the seas can be pretty rough.  
africa_central_african_republic_activities.html:  Activities  There are plenty of opportunities for hiking and bushwhacking through rainforest, as well as mountain climbing and rock climbing if you look hard enough around the Bongo and the Yade Massifs. You can cycle in the CAR, and it is a great way to make contact with locals. If you bring a football or soccer ball you'll make a splash with locals keen for a kick, and after soccer, basketball is Africa's most popular sport. Taking a wildlife safari is the best way to see the wildlife in some of the more remote parts of the country.  
africa_central_african_republic_attractions.html:  Attractions  The river borders the town on one side and hills covered in thick green vegetation border it on the other. There's a charming administrative district, and enough in town to keep you going for a day or two. The French founded the city in 1889, naming it after nearby rapids. Bangui does have charm, but travellers rarely have any praise for it, and parts of town are downright seedy and dangerous. The heart of the African quarter is the unmarked Km 5 intersection (known as 'K-Cinq'), 5km (3mi) from the centre of town. It has bars, dance clubs, and the largest market, and public transport departs from there in all directions. It is the liveliest place in town, but unfortunately it is also the most dangerous, with muggers and thieves, sometimes the worse for drink, on the lookout day and night for potential victims.  The centre of town is the Place de la Republique with its large, off-white triumphal arch, a ridiculous monument to Bokassa's short-lived empire. Near the port, two blocks to the south-east, is the  Marche Central (Central Market), and two blocks away, north-east of the plaza, is the presidential palace. Three major avenues lead away from the plaza to the north and west. To the west is Avenue Boganda, the city's main commercial street, centred between the arch and Rond-Point Boganda. Ave David Dacko passes the H tel Minerva and the US Embassy, and Ave de l'Independance extends to the north past the Centre Artisanal and the new national assembly towards the golf club.  The Musee de Boganda (Boganda Museum) on Ave de la France has a fantastic variety of musical instruments. It also displays pygmy tools and ancient artefacts, including old coins. Bokassa's former palace is 9km (5.5mi) from the south-western outskirts of town in Kolongo, on the way to M'Ba ki. It was looted of all its valuables after he left, but it still makes for an interesting diversion - a guided tour will take you past the lion cages and other gruesome relics of his time in power. It's worth making a trip to  les Chutes de Boali (Boali Waterfalls), during the wet season if the water is running. The water is controlled by a huge Chinese-built dam upriver, but they usually release some water on Sunday for the tourists. The waterfalls are 99km (61mi) northwest of Bangui.  There's a cluster of places to eat around the Place de la Republique, but the best area for street food and African food stalls is around the Km 5 intersection. Plenty of stalls here sell coffee with sweetened milk and French bread with lashings of butter for US$1 or so. There are a few hotels near the Place de la Republique, but generally they are more scattered than the restaurants and street food.  
africa_central_african_republic_environment.html:  Environment  Roughly the size of France, the CAR is surrounded on all sides by other nations, which, in a clockwise direction from the south, read: Democratic Republic of the Congo (formerly Za re, capital: Kinshasa), Republic of the Congo (capital: Brazzaville), Cameroon, Chad and Sudan. The country is mostly undulating land or flat plateau at around 600m (1968ft) above sea level. Dense tropical forests grow in the south, but that gradually thins as you move north and withers into Sahelian scrub in the northeast corner. The Bongo Massif near the border with Sudan rises to 1330m (4362ft) and the Yade Massif along the Cameroon border rises to 1420m (4576ft). The Oubangui River forms the southern boundary with the Democratic Republic of the Congo.  Those with the big bucks get to shoot the big bucks. Hunting safaris are still a huge business in the CAR, and have been ever since the French arrived a century ago and began parcelling up the land into hunting estates. If you've got US$30,000 to spare you can get your kicks shooting giant elands and bongos (types of spiral-horned antelopes), lions and leopards dead in their tracks. Until recently you could even contribute to the destruction of the elephant population. If you don't have the cash, or have a more live-and-let-live attitude to wildlife, there's always your camera, and the photo opportunities are dauntingly large. The CAR is renowned for its population of forest elephants, slightly smaller and with straighter tusks than their plains cousins. Parks include the Bamingui-Bangoran National Park in the northeast, the smaller St Floris National Park farther east and the recently created Dzanga-Ndoki Park and the surrounding Dzanga-Sangha Reserve in the south.  The rainy season lasts six months in the south of the country (May to October), diminishing progressively to four months (June to September) as you head north. The mercury can climb to 40 C (104 F) in the north between February and May, and the humidity can be oppressive.  
africa_central_african_republic_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Only nationals of France, Germany, Israel and Switzerland do not need visas. There is a CAR embassy in Washington DC, but none in the UK and only a few in Europe. In most African countries where there's no CAR representation the French embassy can arrange CAR visas.Health risks: Malaria, bilharzia (schistosomiasis, which makes swimming unsafe everywhere), AIDS (many adults, particularly prostitutes, are affected in Bangui).Time:GMT/UTC + 1 hourElectricity: 220 voltsWeights & measures: metric When to Go  Rain is the most important point to consider when planning a trip to the CAR, because a wet season downpour can strand you for days. In most of the CAR the best time to travel is from November to April, but the rains come by late February in the south and around Bangui. Most of the national parks are open year-round, but St Floris in the northeast is open only from 1 December to 15 May.     Events  The CAR celebrates all the Christian festivals, and in the north, all the Muslim ones. Their dates vary according to the Muslim lunar calendar.  Tabaski (Id al Kabir) is also known as the Great Feast, and is the most important celebration in northern central Africa. Muslims kill a sheep to commemorate the moment when Abraham was about to sacrifice his son in obedience to God's command. (God intervened at the last moment and suggested a ram instead.) It also coincides with the end of the pilgrimage to Mecca. New Year's Day is a holiday throughout the country as well.    
africa_central_african_republic_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  During the day you can climb the Kaga hill about 3km (1.8mi) from town for good views of the dry country around about. In the evenings the market is lit up by oil lamps and you can get cheap food there, chat with the local people and sample the excellent local snifter, hydromiel, a type of beer made with honey. Grilled meat vendors ply the streets in the gare-routiere area, which really hops at night. Kaga Bandoro is 300km (186mi) north of Bangui, and you reach it by minibus.  
africa_chad_activities.html:  Activities  There isn't a huge range of organised activities in Chad. Just making it in and out is an all-consuming activity that leaves little time or energy for parasailing or bungee jumping. The mountains in the north would be a challenging climb for the adventurous if they weren't off-limits due to possible guerilla activity and the less than welcoming locals. There is one rocky outcrop good for climbing - though not commonly used for this purpose - on the eastern shore of Lac Chad at Hadjer al Hamis.  
africa_chad_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Chadian capital was known as Fort-Lamy until 1973, and before the civil war was known as one of the nicest cities in the Sahel. Slowly, this reputation is returning, not least because the people are among the most friendly in Africa. This rapidly growing, rapidly modernising city offers great markets, interesting artisan goods and a thriving live music and bar scene. If the prices were a little cheaper and the police weren't shooting people in the street, it'd be almost perfect.  The city is divided into two sections, the European or administrative section and the bigger, more lively African section. Places of interest include the remaining exhibits in the Musee National and the vast Grand Marche. You might also catch the horseracing at the hippodrome on the weekend or even play a round of golf about 4km (2.5mi) east of town.  
africa_chad_environment.html:  Environment  Chad is the fifth-largest country in Africa. It's in north-central Africa, landlocked by Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Sudan, Libya, Niger and, on Lac Chad, Nigeria. Located on the edge of the Sahara, the country is mostly arid semi-desert. Lac Chad is the only permanent fresh water source, though in severe drought - such as in 1984 - it is possible to walk across it. In addition, increased demand on the water by humans has reduced the lake to only about 20% of the size it was in 1970. In the north there are mountain ranges, with two peaks rising above 3000m (9840ft), by far the highest points in the Sahara.  Chad contains three climatic regions. At times, it might be 40 C (102 F) in the capital, and as low as -8 C (15 F) in the northern Saharan mountains. The central region of Chad is part of the Sahel and is covered by sand which occasionally gives way to scrub. Rainfall is very light. As you move further south, the dryness gives way to a more tropical climate; it's here that you will find Chad's only two permanent rivers. This is the most fertile region in Chad and it effectively feeds the whole country. It is also the only area with significant fauna, mainly birds and antelope.  
africa_chad_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Only German and French citizens can enter Chad without a visa. For all other nationals, visas for between one week and three months are fairly easy to obtain. From other African countries, visas are usually issued by the French embassy. You can't get a visa for Chad in Rwanda. Exit visas are required if travelling to Niger or Sudan.Health risks: You will require immunisations (and, often, proof of this) against yellow fever, cholera, tetanus, typhoid and hepatitis A. You'll also need to guard against giardia, dysentry, fungal infections, rabies, tuberculosis, bilharzia, diptheria, malaria, meningococcal meningitis, typhus and a whole textbook of other water-, insect- and air-borne diseases.Time: GMT/UTC + 1 hourElectricity:220 VWeights & measures:Metric When to Go  Because many of the roads in Chad aren't tarred, they become impossibly impassable in the wet season (June to September), so it's best to travel when it's dry. Between March and May, the average daily temperature of 45 C (110 F) also makes travel a little uncomfortable. From December to mid-February, the days are dry and warm and the nights quite cool, making this part of the year probably the best time to head to Chad.     Events  Not known for its party atmosphere, celebrations in Chad are confined to Muslim feasts, especially Tabaski or Id al Kabir, and private, tribe-specific ceremonies. On Sundays in N'Djamena many of the bars practice a modern ritual called the pari-match. Here, a young woman or women will book the entire bar, hoping to make money from alcohol sales. She will invite all her friends and acquaintences, but won't mind a bit if a stranger turns up in the mood for a few drinks. This practice doesn't occur in Muslim parts of town (naturally), and is frowned upon by the government.    
africa_chad_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  About 1100km (680mi) from the capital, Fada is a small oasis town with around 5000 inhabitants. It's a modest town nestled in a beautiful area with weird rock formations and several fascinating grottos containing cave paintings, most over 5000 years old. The famous Guelta d'Archei geological formation is about 80km (50mi) from town. Hitching with trucks can take anywhere from three to five days, but saves you the hassle of finding a guide (best done in Kouba) and working your own way there. If you approach Fada from Abeche, you'll pass Libyan tanks rusting by the side of the road.  
africa_comoros_and_mayotte_activities.html:  Activities   Diving is being heavily promoted on Comoros but the sites don't quite match up to those on the Seychelles or Mauritius. Currently there is only one diving school operating. Mayotte's older and more developed coral reefs make it a popular diving spot for tourists and locals alike. Big-game fishing is possible, but expensive, and pretty much the sole preserve of the wealthy island-hoppers and their very tanned friends. Expeditions can be arranged through the same company that organises diving tours.  For those of you with little money, but strong legs, hiking is a great way to see the islands and get a better feel for the rhythms of islander life. The hikes are not particularly arduous (with the exception of the hike up Mt Karthala), and there are a multitude of scenic treks to pick from. Quite a number of routes will take you past majestic waterfalls, through rainforests, or onto beautiful deserted beaches. There are some fine swimming beaches at Itsandra and Ngwala on Grand Comore but the hotels have commandeered these, and it will cost you an arm and a leg to swim there. You'll fare better on the islands of Anjouan and Moheli where the beaches are free and plentiful.  
africa_comoros_and_mayotte_attractions.html:  Attractions   Moroni, also known as Port-aux-Boutres, is the capital of Comoros and is on the island of Grande Comore, the youngest but largest of the Comoros Islands. The port lies on the west coast and is one of the island's best assets. With its stone jetties and boats pulled up in parallel lines, it seems more Mediterranean than African, and makes a great foreground setting for the sun that sets in a spectacular blaze of oranges, reds and maroons. Set back from the port is the medina with its maze of small winding streets, shop fronts, lane ways and wall-to-wall buildings dating back to Swahili times.  Moroni is fairly spread out but, with the exception of the Arab Quarter, easy to get around. From the north a couple of main streets converge at Ave des Minsteres which then winds its way around the lip of the port, before shooting out in a couple of different directions on the south side of town. Many of the hotels and bungalows are situated north of the city, with the restaurants and cafes equally divided between the north and south of the city. Unfortunately, only one or two dining places in the city centre have harbour views.  The coastline on the east side of Grande Comore is wilder and more untamed than on the west. If you have time to spare, a camping trip round the east coast is always a good idea. Beginning in the northeast corner the first beach is Bouni, once the sultanate of Hamahame, but now a sleepy village with two stunning beaches. Next down the coast is Chomoni. This sheltered bay has an unusual mix of chequered black lava and white sandy beaches, and bungalows with basic facilities for hire, which is probably the best accommodation option. Down the southeast corner is the town of Foumbouni, the third-largest community on Grande Comore. The sands are whiter and brighter than anything you'll find in Moroni or Itsandra and is one of Comore's best kept secrets. Few tourists come here and the locals are still a little bamboozled at the sight of foreigners. Right at the southern tip of the island is Chindini, another airy beach with fabulous views. There are a few bungalows around, but there are also any number of places to pitch a tent.  The best way to get to all these beaches from Moroni, or to travel between them, is by taxi-brousse or, if you get lucky, by hitching a ride with a vehicle going in your direction. The distance between Moroni and Bouni is 27km (17mi); between Moroni and Chomoni, 18km (11mi); between Moroni and Foumbouni, 30km (19mi); and between Moroni and Chindini, 35km (22mi).  The island's interior is studded with grassy plains and the remnants of a rainforest, as well as Mt Karthala, an active volcano that's still belching and burping away. The plains roll down to the coastline where palm trees, beaches of black lava or white sand, and young coral reefs fringe the shores. The west coast has all the chichi resorts with suites and casinos, ambient bars and Frenchified restaurants.  
africa_comoros_and_mayotte_environment.html:  Environment  The Comoros archipelago consists of four volcanic islands sprinkled over the Indian Ocean, between the northern tip of Madagascar and the top half of the Mozambique coastline. Three of the islands - Grande Comore (Ngazidja), Moheli (Mwali), and Anjouan (Ndzuani) - make up the Republic of Comoros, while the fourth island, Mayotte, remains unrepublic, unrepentant and unapologetically French. The three islands of the republic cover an area roughly 12 times the size of Washington, with the biggest and northernmost island, Grande Comore, shaped like a foot and shinbone. Beneath it is the smaller island of Moheli, the oval stone that the foot is kicking, and beneath that (and a little to the east), the medium-size island of Anjouan, shaped like a melting map of Tasmania. Mayotte, further south again, is about twice the size of Washington and is shaped like a feisty little seahorse standing on its head.  While Comoros isn't renowned for its weird and wacky wildlife on terra firma (apart from the fact that it's full of drongos), it is famous for being a bit of a Jurassic Park under the sea. In 1938 a local museum curator found a coelacanth in the bottom of a local's fishing basket. This prehistoric 'fossil' fish, with limblike fins and cartilaginous skeleton, was thought to have been extinct for over 70 million years, and the discovery, according to one professor, was equivalent to finding a live dinosaur. Incredibly, the locals had been catching these 'extinct' coelacanths (or gombessas) for years, and taking them home for a bit of a fry up. The find precipitated the Great Coelacanth Controversy, which pitted country against country, ichthyologist against ichthyologist, in a drama of passion, intrigue, envy, revenge, and tears. Or so the story goes. Not to be outdone by a mere fish, even a very old one, the president of Anjouan stated that the dodo was still alive and well and living on his island.  The climate is marine tropical, with two seasons: hot and humid from November to April, and cool and dry the rest of the year. In fact, for a significant part of the year Comoros enjoys a near-perfect, balmy 25 C with the scent of ylang-ylang, cloves, cinnamon and vanilla wafting gently in on the trade winds. But when it's not perfect paradise weather, it's tempestuous and surly, with monsoonal winds and cyclones screaming in off the ocean.  
africa_comoros_and_mayotte_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas:A visa is required for all visitors Comoros. You must have onward plane tickets. Thirty-day visas can be obtained upon arrival, but can only be paid for in French francs, and there are no money-changing facilities at the airport. Mayotte does not require visas from residents of the EU, the USA, Canada, New Zealand, Australia and Israel. Except for a handful of non-EU European countries, everyone else must have a visa.Health risks:There are no vaccinations required, but precautions against malaria should be taken.Time:GMT/UTC plus 3 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The wet season between November and April is not a particularly healthy time to visit Comoros. If you don't die from dehydration or sheer frustration at the oppressively humid conditions, you might find yourself caught in a monsoonal wind ( kashkazi), or cyclone. The best time to visit is in the cooler months between May and October. This also avoids Ramadan at the end of January/beginning of February, when the collective Comoran temper can suffer from the double whammy of continual fasting and oppressive heat.     Events  Most of the events on Comoros are connected to Islamic holy days. Ramadan, the traditional period of fasting for the Islamic world, differs from year to year. Id-ul-Fitr which marks the new moon, and signals the end of Ramadan, is also a time of celebration. Mayotte celebrates both Muslim holidays and the European holidays of Bastille Day, on 14 July, and Christmas Day.    
africa_comoros_and_mayotte_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  One of the most pristine and untouched areas of the Comoros is the small island of Chissioua Ouenefou, just off the south coast off Moheli, near Nioumachoua. It's part of a marine reserve. This former leper colony has a beautiful sandy beach at the southern end, which makes for good camping, and offers an excellent vantage point to go green sea turtle watching. Green sea turtles, almost extinct a couple of years ago, lumber about the island of Chissioua Ouenefou with all their old grace, but with a new protection order that prohibits their capture or endangerment. A couple of days of swimming, fishing, exploring the island on foot, turtle watching and camping out will see you right.  To get to Chissioua Ouenefou, you need to fly, or boat it, to Fomboni on Moheli. From Fomboni take a taxi-brousse to the village of Nioumachoua on the southern coast where you'll have to engage with a bit of palaver with a local boatman to negotiate a price for delivery to the island. From Moroni on Grand Comore to Chissioua Ouenefou is a distance of 90km (56mi).  
africa_cote_divoire_activities.html:  Activities  Parc du Banco in Abidjan is a great place for walking. You can trek through virgin rainforest in Ta National Park, located in the south-western corner of the country. The hiking is good on tall Mt Tonkoui and steep La Dent de Man in the central-western Man region. The best coastal areas lie west of Abidjan. Grand-Lahou is one of the best spots in the country for surfing. There are also big waves further west at Plage Le Bivouac in Sassandra; the swimming is better at adjacent Poly-Plage. The country's best beaches for sun worshipping are in Grand-Bereby, a fishing village 340km (210mi) west of Abidjan near the Liberian border.  
africa_cote_divoire_attractions.html:  Attractions  Huge, glitzy and crime ridden, Abidjan was an unimportant town until 1951, when the French finished the Vridi Canal connecting Abidjan's lagoon with the ocean. This instantly gave the city an excellent harbour, and since then the population has skyrocketed to almost 3 million people, spread out over four peninsulas around the lagoon.  Known as the 'Paris of West Africa', Abidjan has a lot of French people but also attracts Africans from neighbouring countries, making it the region's most cosmopolitan city. Many travellers see only the wealthy side, especially Le Plateau, the central, high-rise commercial area, and Cocody, the posh residential section where you'll find the imperial H tel Ivoire. The sections where ordinary people live, such as Treichville, Marcory and Adjame, are far more interesting. Linked to Le Plateau by two major bridges, Treichville is where you'll find most of the nightclubs.   H tel Ivoire, West Africa's most famous hotel, is the city's number one attraction. It boasts everything from a swimming pool, ice-skating rink, bowling alley, cinema and casino to a major art shop in the basement. The city's eye-catching, modern St Paul's Cathedral, outdone only by another in the capital Yamoussoukro, is worth checking out for a trip up the tower. It was grandly designed by an Italian and consecrated by the Pope in 1985.  On the north-western edge of town is the Parc du Banco, a rainforest reserve and a pleasant, cool place for a walk. Several hundred metres beyond the dirt road entrance is Africa's largest outdoor launderette, an unforgettable spectacle where hundreds of fanicos (washermen) jam together in the middle of a stream to wash clothes. They're there every day, frantically rubbing garments on huge stones held in place by old car tyres and then spreading the clothes over rocks and grass for half a kilometre, never getting them mixed up.  Bear in mind that since the late 1980s, Abidjan has had one of the worst reputations for crime in West Africa, and no part of town is considered safe enough to wander around alone after dark.  
africa_cote_divoire_environment.html:  Environment  With an area about the size of Germany, squarish C te d'Ivoire is bordered on the south by the Atlantic Ocean, on the west by Liberia and Guinea, to the north by Mali and Burkina Faso, and on the east by Ghana. Except for the western hill country around Man, C te d'Ivoire is mostly flat. The coastal area is notable for an inland lagoon that starts at the Ghanaian border and stretches 300km (190mi) along the entire eastern half of the coast.  In the south is Yamoussoukro, the country's capital, and the cocoa and coffee farms that grow C te d'Ivoire's major export crops. Around them are remnants of the rainforests that once covered the entire southern area; the land becomes savannah farther north. The expansion of agricultural lands poses a major threat to the country's diverse flora and fauna. Rainforests are being cut down at the highest rate in the world; the only remaining virgin forest is in the 3600 sq km (1400 sq mi) Ta National Park in the far south-western corner of C te d'Ivoire. The timber industry is the main culprit; hardwood exports are on a level with those of Brazil, a country 20 times larger.  C te d'Ivoire is humid and tropical along the coast and semi-arid in the north, with three distinct seasons. The country is warm and dry from November to March; hot and dry from March through May; and hot and wet from June through October; July is wettest of all. From early December to February, the harmattan winds blow sand south from the Sahara, reducing visibility in the northern mountain regions.  
africa_cote_divoire_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors need a visa except for nationals of Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Norway, Sweden, the UK, the US and nationals of Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) countries.Health risks: A vaccination is required for yellow fever, and another for cholera if there's an outbreak.Time: GMT/UTCElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: About 728,000 visitors per year When to Go  In February, the F tes des Masques (Festival of Masks) takes place in scattered villages in the Man region. Not to be missed is mid-April's F te du Dipri, held in Gomon, 100km (60mi) north-west of Abidjan, when the entire village vigourously exorcises their homes of evil spells. A peaceful time to go is the cool, dry period from November to February, though shutterbugs will get much better photos in the rainy season from May to October. The tourist season tends to be from December to March and, to a lesser extent, the months of November and April.     Events  One of C te d'Ivoire's most famous festivals is the F tes des Masques (Festival of Masks), which takes place in villages in the Man region each February. Another important event is carnival in Bouake each March. If you're here in April, don't miss the F te du Dipri in Gomon. This festival starts around midnight, when women and children sneak out of their huts and, naked, carry out nocturnal rites to exorcise the village of evil spells. Before sunrise the chief appears, drums pound and villagers go into trances. The frenzy continues until late afternoon of the next day. The major Muslim holiday is Ramadan, a month (around December) when everyone fasts between sunup and sunset in accordance with the fourth pillar of Islam. Ramadan ends with a huge feast, Eid al-Fitr, where everyone prays together, visits friends, gives presents and stuffs themselves. National Day is 7 December.    
africa_cote_divoire_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Sassandra is best known for its wonderful beaches. But what makes it special is that it's also an ethnic Fanti fishing village, with an active port and a scenic river to explore. If you're up to trying some highly recommended bangui (palm wine), there's plenty of it here. The town was once an important trading post, but when the port at nearby San Pedro was built, it went into decline.  The beaches are all west of Sassandra, along a dirt road. The first one, big-waved Plage Le Bivouac, is walking distance from the village; for the remainder, you'll have to hitch a ride or take a taxi. The prized jewel is peaceful Poly-Plage and its tiny Fanti fishing village. Sassandra is 210km (130mi) west of Abidjan. Buses ply daily between the two.  
africa_djibouti_activities.html:  Activities  You can swim, snorkel and dive at Red Sea beaches and coral reefs not far from Djibouti city, and take a walking tour of the capital. Take a 4WD expedition out to the lakes and explore the black lava fields or climb an extinct volcano or several peaks that rise to 1300m (4264ft). You can camp on deserted beaches, and you can even windsurf on wheels at the eastern end of Petit Bara, a great salty plain.  
africa_djibouti_attractions.html:  Attractions  Scarcely 100 years old, the capital is home to two-thirds of the nation's population. Central Djibouti is laid out on a grid and is compact enough to explore in an afternoon. It sits on the western shore of an isthmus in the Gulf of Tadjoura, overlooking a small marina where dhows, fishing skiffs and pleasure boats are moored. The Central Market ( Le Marche Central) just south of the centre of town, is worth seeing, in particular for its fresh sprigs of qat, a mild stimulant flown in daily from Ethiopia.  If you don't want to get wet but still want to see the Red Sea's undersea goodies, then visit the Aquarium Tropical de Djibouti, open daily from 4 to 6.30 pm, except during Ramadan. You can walk past the presidential palace and along the causeway to L'Escale for a closer look at the boats. The best beaches near the city are Dorale and the less accessible Khor-Ambado. You can take a boat and camp safely on Maskali and Moucha, two islands in the nearby Gulf of Tadjoura.  The bars and hotels in the  Quartier Africain are the cheapest, but also the roughest; they usually double as brothels. You must pay per bed, and single rooms are not available. Other hotels are scattered around town, none more than 1km (0.6mi) outside of the centre. Just as all the hotels aren't what they seem, some of the bars and restaurants aren't either. If most of the patrons seem to be exchanging sultry pouts over drinks, you've probably hit a pick-up joint - even if it's labelled 'Restaurant'. Other than that, the souq (market) area is the best place to go when you're hungry for food. Spicy, oven-baked or barbecued fish is a local specialty you shouldn't miss.  
africa_djibouti_environment.html:  Environment  Djibouti is a little bigger than El Salvador but nowhere near as green; it is mostly a hot desert waste with virtually no arable land. Vaguely foetus-shaped, you can divide it into three regions to make sense of its geography: the coastal plain, the volcanic plateaus in the south and centre, and the mountain ranges up north. It shares borders with Eritrea, Ethiopia and Somalia on the Horn of Africa, and you can make out the coast of Yemen across the waves of the Red Sea.  Lac Abbe is where you'll see flamingoes feeding in the mornings, and while it's not designated as a national park it's one of the few places where you will see wildlife of any kind. When you consider Djibouti's weather, 'torrid' and 'dry' come quickly to mind. It's too hot and there's too little water anywhere to support much more than the odd nomad's camel. The cooler season, which sometimes brings rain, averages 25 C (77 F), but at the peak of the hot season the mercury nudges 45 C (113 C).  
africa_djibouti_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Everyone except French nationals needs a visa. They cost around US$20 and are valid for one month. Visitors also require evidence of a yellow fever vaccination.Health risks: Bilharzia (in the freshwater lakes), HIV/AIDSTime:GMT/UTC + 3 hoursElectricity: 220/240VWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  November to mid-April is the best time to visit, as it is too hot for the rest of the year.     Events  Friday is a holiday for offices and government institutions. Djibouti also observes New Year's Day (1 January), Labour Day (1 May), Independence Day (27 June), Christmas Day (25 December) and various Islamic holidays whose dates are variable.    
africa_djibouti_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track   Lac Assal is 150m (492ft) below sea level, and is an aquatic wilderness surrounded by dormant volcanoes and black lava fields. The lake is a one-day trip on the tarmac road west from the capital. You will pass Lac Goubet on the way, a seawater loch known locally as 'the pit of demons', then pass a stark, apocalyptic volcanic neck separating the two lakes.  You can only reach Lac Abbe by 4WD, and you'll need to hire a guide and set aside two days to do it. In the far south-west of the country on the border with Ethiopia, Lac Abbe is the dawn gathering place for flamingoes. Weird natural chimneys (or fumaroles) formed by escaping underground steam dot the foreshore. The town of Dikhil, where the sealed road runs out, is a good starting point for 4WD expeditions.  
africa_egypt_activities.html:  Activities  There are plenty of good opportunities for swimming on the many fine beaches along Egypt's Mediterranean and Red Sea coasts. Diving and snorkelling are by far the most popular organised activities in Egypt, and the Red Sea is said to have some of the best scuba diving in the world. The waters off Egypt teem with underwater life and the corals, crustaceans and fish come in all sorts of vivid colours and shapes. Camel and jeep safaris are also popular, either in the Western Desert with its fantastic sand landscapes or in the rugged, rocky surrounds of Sinai. The government is also promoting Egypt as a golfing destination.  
africa_egypt_attractions.html:  Attractions  The heart of Egypt for more than 1000 years, Cairo demonstrates the dichotomy of all things Egyptian. It's in Cairo where the medieval world and the contemporary western world come together in a confusion of earthen houses and towering modern office buildings, of flashy cars and donkey-drawn carts. Nobody really knows how many people live in Cairo, but estimates put it at about 16 million, and the city's many squatter camps and slums alone accommodate around 5 million people. Housing shortages are terrible and the traffic is appalling, but the government has begun a campaign to ease these pressures, opening an underground metro system and constructing satellite suburbs.   Islamic Cairo (which is no more Islamic than the rest of the city) is the old medieval quarter, and stepping into its neighbourhoods is like moving back six or seven centuries. This is the most densely populated area of Egypt, and probably the whole Middle East. Districts like Darb al-Ahmar are full of tiny alleyways, mud-brick houses, food hawkers, and goats, camels and donkeys. The streets are lined with mosques and temples, and the air is filled with the pungent smells of turmeric and cumin, animals and squalor. Some of Islamic Cairo's highlights include the Mosque of Ibn Tulun, dating from the 9th century and the city's oldest intact and fully functioning Islamic monument; the 15th-century Mosque of Qaitbey, considered the jewel of Mamluk architecture; Al-Azhar Mosque, the keystone of Islam in Egypt; and the Citadel, an awesome medieval fortress that was the seat of Egyptian power for 700 years. The Citadel has three major mosques and several museums.   Coptic Cairo was originally built as a Roman fortress town. Pre-dating the founding of Islamic Cairo by several hundred years, it was home to one of the world's first Christian communities and is also a holy place for Jews and Muslims. The sole remaining section of the Fortress of Babylon includes two towers which were built in AD 98 and originally overlooked an important port on the Nile before the river changed course. The Coptic Museum at the foot of the towers explores Egypt's Christian era from the years 300 to 1000. The stunning collection includes religious and secular art, stonework, manuscripts, woodwork, glass and ceramics.   Giza is on the west bank of the Nile and takes in an 18km (11mi) swathe that includes the Great Pyramids. The pyramids were one of the seven wonders of the ancient world, and despite the crowds that visit every year, they are still a truly overwhelming sight. They have survived the rise and fall of great dynasties and conquerors, and share the flat desert surrounds with the Sphinx and a number of smaller pyramids and temples.  Cairo has various precincts with cheap tourist accommodation and places to eat, but central Cairo is popular with budget travellers, particularly Midan Orabi and Midan Talaat Harb.  
africa_egypt_environment.html:  Environment  Hacking a whopping square chunk out of Africa's northeast corner, Egypt stretches over more than a million square km. More than 95% of the land area is barren desert though, which has induced 90% of the population to squish into just 3% of the total land area, the fertile Nile Valley and Delta.   Egypt borders Libya in the west, Sudan in the south, the Mediterranean Sea in the north, and the Red Sea and Israel in the east. The eastern region, across the Suez Canal, is Sinai. This region slopes up to the high mountains of Mt Katherine (Gebel Katarina at 2642m/8666ft is Egypt's highest point) and Mt Sinai. Along Egypt's Mediterranean coast there are countless white-sand beaches, some developed as tourist resorts but many still pristine and isolated. North of Cairo the Nile splits into a series of tributaries that flow into the Mediterranean.   Most of the animals worshipped by the ancient Egyptians are now extinct in the country. Gone are the leopards, cheetahs, oryx and hyenas, and only two of the three varieties of gazelle still survive. There are plenty of rodents and bats, but domesticated camels and donkeys are the most visible forms of Egyptian animal life. There are around 430 species of birds, some of which breed in Egypt, but most pass through on migration from Europe to southern Africa. Up to two million birds are thought to pass over Egypt on annual migrations. There are also 34 varieties of snakes, the best known of which is the cobra. Scorpions are common throughout the country, but being nocturnal, they are rarely seen. The Red Sea supports sharks, stingrays, turtles, dolphins, colourful corals, sponges, starfish and various molluscs.   Egypt's climate is hot and dry most of the year. During the winter months - December, January and February - average daily temperatures stay up around 20 C (68 F) on the Mediterranean coast and a pleasant 26 C (80 F) in Aswan. Maximum temperatures get to 31 C (88 F) and 50 C (122 F) respectively. Winter nights only get down to 8 C (45 F), a very Egyptian version of chilly. Alexandria receives the most rain with 19cm (7.5in) each year, while Aswan is almost bone-dry with just 2mm annually. Between March and April the khamsi blows in from the Western Desert at up to 150kph (93mph).  
africa_egypt_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors to Egypt are required to have a visa and a passport valid for six months. Visas can be arranged through Egyptian embassies worldwide. Visitors from the US, Canada, EU and GCC countries may be able to purchase a visa stamp upon arrival at many large airports. One-month visitor's visas can be extended.Health risks: Bilharzia (don't paddle in the Nile!)Time: GMT/UTC plus two hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 2.8 million visitors per year When to Go  Deciding when to come to Egypt depends a lot on where you want to go. Everywhere south of Cairo is uncomfortably hot in the summer months (June-August), especially Luxor and Aswan, so winter (December-February) is definitely the best time to visit these areas. Summer is also the time when the Mediterranean coast is at its most crowded, but winter in Cairo can get pretty cool. March to May is the best time to enjoy the warm days without the crush of bodies on the beaches and the midday heat of high summer.     Events  The Islamic (or Hejira) calender is a full 11 days shorter than the Gregorian (western) calender, so public holidays and festivals fall 11 days earlier each year. Ras as-Sana is the celebration of the new Islamic year, and Moulid an-Nabi celebrates the Prophet Mohammed's birthday around May. These celebrations include parades in the city streets, with lights, feasts, drummers and special sweets. Ramadan is celebrated during the ninth month of the Islamic calender (presently around November). It was during this month that the Quran was revealed to Mohammed, and out of deference the faithful take neither food nor water until after sunset each day. At the end of Ramadan ( Eid al-Fitr) the fasting breaks with much celebration and gaiety.   Eid al-Adha is the time of the pilgrimage to Mecca, and each Muslim is expected to make the pilgrimage ( haj) at least once in a lifetime. Streets are decorated with coloured lights and children play in their best clothes. The ritual of Mahmal is performed in each village as passing pilgrims are given carpets and shrouds to take on their journey. This all happens around February.    
africa_egypt_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Centred around the towns of Mut and Al-Qasr, this oasis is nearly 200km (40mi) from Kharga Oasis and more than 250km (155mi) from Farafra Oasis. Mut is a labyrinth of old laneways and mud-brick houses clinging to the slopes of the hill. Atop the hill are the remains of an old citadel that once was the town proper. The views from this hill over the medieval town and the empty backdrop of cliffs, dunes and desert are quite fantastic. There's an old Islamic cemetery near the new town centre, and several hot sulphur springs around the town.   Nearby, Al-Qasr is an ancient little town with much of its traditional architecture still intact. The medieval atmosphere is accentuated by the narrow covered streets (built to provide shelter from the summer sun and desert windstorms) and the animals that roam through them. Many of the houses and buildings have lintels above their front doorways inscribed with the builder's name, the home-owner's name, the date and a passage of the Quran - the earliest of these dates from 924. There are three buses daily from Cairo to Dakhla.  
africa_equatorial_guinea_activities.html:  Activities  Along the mainland coast there are some of the world's best beaches. Swimming is especially good here, though, surprisingly, you won't find many good spots to get your feet wet on Bioko. On the island, though, you will find great, secluded hiking trails, particularly in the southern half. If you're feeling adventurous, try mountain climbing the spectacular Piko Malabo volcano on Bioko. A government permit is required (it's a military area) and few travellers set foot in the region.  
africa_equatorial_guinea_attractions.html:  Attractions  Small, beautiful and Spanish in influence, Malabo is gleaming from a recent facelift after looking a bit scruffy a decade ago. Although it's not the biggest city in Equatorial Guinea, it's certainly the most vibrant and tourist-friendly. Outdoor bars, thriving nightclubs and colourful markets are the highlights of a town in the heart of the real African tropics. With ocean waves to the north and the imposing mountain to the south, Malabo is seemingly the perfect recipe for tourism, and the government is attempting to attract visitors by maintaining the city in a clean and relatively safe manner. The petroleum boom has created strong contrasts in wealth and modernization around the city. You will see fancy neighborhoods adjacent to shantytowns.  During the day, there's not much to do in Malabo except rest, wander and chat with the locals in one of the bars. Come nightfall and the town picks up the pace with many of the best restraurants and clubs not opening until the sun goes down. Beer is expensive, but the local brews of palm wine and malamba, made from sugarcane, are dirt cheap and available everywhere.  
africa_equatorial_guinea_environment.html:  Environment  The country is made up of two provinces - Bioko Island lies 40km (25mi) off the coast of Cameroon in the Bight of Biafra, and Rio Muni, the much larger area, lies on the mainland coast between Cameroon to the north and Gabon to the south and east.  Equatorial Guinea is thick with vegetation. Being an extinct volcano, Bioko has extremely rich soil, encouraging the rapid growth of trees and vines. Farmers spend much of their time keeping the ever-encroaching vines from overwhelming their cocoa plantations. Rio Muni, having been largely bypassed by the 20th century, is equally thick with vegetation and boasts an abundance of wildlife, including elephants, lions and gazelle.  Equatorial Guinea is a rainy, tropical country. On Bioko Island the rainy season is from July through to January, while on the mainland, rainfall is lighter and peaks from April to May and from October to December.  
africa_equatorial_guinea_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors to Equatorial Guinea require a visa, which is usually valid for 30 days. In Africa, the easiest places to get a visa are Cameroon and Gabon, though it's not very difficult anywhere with same-day service the norm.Health risks: You will require immunisations (and, often, proof of this) against yellow fever, cholera, tetanus, typhoid, meningitis, polio and hepatitis A. You'll also need to guard against giardia, dysentry, fungal infections, rabies, tuberculosis, bilharzia, diptheria, malaria, typhus and a whole textbook of other water-, insect- and air-borne diseases.Time: GMT/UTC + 1 hourElectricity: 240VWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Rain is the main factor to consider when travelling in Equatorial Guinea. Dirt roads become extremely muddy, and you could find yourself stranded for some time. To avoid the wet season, the best time to travel in Equatorial Guinea is between November and April.     Events  The most interesting events in Equatorial Guinea coincide with Christian or traditional religious ceremonies. Many of these are family or village based, but some public celebrations may occur. Independence is celebrated on 12 October and this is the most likely time to see public events in Malabo and Bata.    
africa_equatorial_guinea_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Although only 50km (32mi) south of Bata, the trip to Mbini involves a minibus and a ferry, and can take some time. The ferry, which runs hourly, carries only four vehicles, so expect a wait. Mbini is a pleasant town at the mouth of the Rio Benito. A popular spot for swimming, it's also an ideal place to meet locals in a low-key environment.  
africa_eritrea_activities.html:  Activities  Though potentially a great idea, hiking through Eritrea's eastern hills and mountain ranges, or in the tropical forest around Filfil, does have its drawbacks in the form of unexploded munitions left over from the Ethiopia conflict. Hikers should at the very least consult with local authorities on the safety of the area they plan to walk through and also consider hiring a guide to accompany them. If you like the sound of a trek but are too lazy to use your own legs, camel treks can be organised through several travel agents in Asmara.  Water enthusiasts will want to splash into the Red Sea to get their fill of the wet stuff. Diving and snorkelling are the activities of choice in the Dahlak Archipelago, which boasts some of the most pristine coral reefs in the Red Sea. The waters of the island group also harbour various man-made attractions - namely sunken Ethiopian dhows, Italian WWII warships and a rusty Russian tank or two - and play host to fishing tours. Underwater swimming can also be done off the southern city of Assab and you can water ski near Massawa.  
africa_eritrea_attractions.html:  Attractions  Perched on the eastern edge of Eritrea's highland plateau, Asmara enjoys a great climate, clean and architecturally striking streets, and a reputation as one of the safest capital cities in Africa. The city began life as four villages - hence the meaning of its original name, Arbate Esmere - that were founded by shepherds pleased with the local abundance of water. Travellers used the place as a refreshing stopover on their way between the sea and mountains and it eventually became a key trading post. In the late-19th century, the all-colonising Italians decided Asmara was to become the jewel of their east African empire and over the next 50 years proceeded to lavish the town with their own cultural trimmings.  The Italian architectural touch can be seen all over the city, from the original residential area in the south, which still displays numerous Art-Deco villas, to the buildings of what was (and still is) the administrative area in the north. Liberation Ave is the main thoroughfare, running east to west, and a stroll along here (starting at the western end) will take you past the Corinthian columns of the Neoclassical Governor's Palace, the Romanesque portico of the 1920s Opera House, a Catholic cathedral thought to be the finest example of its style (Lombard-Romanesque) outside Italy, and the imposing frontage of the Cinema Impero. Conspicuous style is, however, conspicuously missing from the city's northeast, where the local population were housed during the days of colonialism and where the local poor now shack up.  Asmara's excellent National Museum is still awaiting the full renovation of its new premises, but when completed and reopened to the public it will include exhibits on the nation's fight for independence, its nine ethnic groups and its main archaeological sites. At the city's main market, you'll find stalls selling household goods, fruit and vegetables, spices, pottery, musical instruments, secondhand clothes and shoes, and wooden and metal furniture, to name but a few of the items on offer. If you need a break from spending all your nakfa, you can rest in the peaceful environs of City Park or head out of town towards the airport to the Tank Cemetery, where you can mourn the passing of hundreds of dumped tanks, armoured cars and other scrap military metal.  
africa_eritrea_environment.html:  Environment  Eritrea sits above the Horn of Africa on the vast continent's east coast, squeezed in-between the large mass of Sudan to the north, and long-time rival Ethiopia and the geopolitical sliver of Djibouti to the south. It has a total land area of 124,320 sq km (48,500 sq mi) which is divided into three main geographical zones: the western lowlands; the fertile and intensively farmed central highland region; and the eastern escarpment and coastal plains, which are mainly desert and include one of the most inhospitable regions on earth, Danakalia. Over 350 tiny islands pepper the waters of the Red Sea to the east, over half of which make up the Dahlak Archipelago.  The east of the country is covered mainly by semidesert vegetation, brushland and thicket - which also predominate in the west - with some mangrove swamps thrown in for good measure. In the highlands, you'll be tiptoeing through juniper and wild olives, while to the northeast of the capital Asmara is the last batch of tropical woodland in the country. The animals most commonly encountered in Eritrea include wild cats, Abyssinian hares, jackals, warthogs and gazelles, plus over 500 species of birds; rarer sightings involve elephants and lions (in the west), oryxes and crocodiles. Life in the Red Sea includes significant coral reefs, dugongs and turtles. Unfortunately, due to the war and the consequent destruction of habitats, just about every animal in the country is now considered 'endangered'.  Climate-wise, the country's highlands are the most accommodating, with average annual temperatures around 18 C (64.5 F) and spirit-dampening heavy rainfalls occurring only in July and August. Average temperatures in the west range from 30-41 C (86-106 F). The low, eastern portion of Eritrea has staked its claim as nature's frying pan - in the Danakil Depression, the heat can reach 50 C (122 F) and rain is an extinct species.  
africa_eritrea_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All foreign nationals need a visa to visit Eritrea and these should be obtained from one of the country's embassies or consulates before you leave your home turf. Tourist visas are single-entry only and valid for a month - to get one, you'll need a passport valid for at least three months and one passport photo. Transit visas, for which you need a valid passport and visa plus an onward ticket, limit your visit to a week and can be arranged at an official Eritrean port of entry if need be.Health risks: Being by the Red Seaside and anywhere else that's less than 6500ft above sea level means being exposed to the risk of malaria, so stock up on the requisite drugs. Dengue fever is also endemic so anti-mosquito precautions are a must. Other common ailments in the region include diarrhoea, giardia, dehydration and worm infestations.Time: GMT/UTC + 3 hours.Electricity: Both 110V and 220V at both 50hz and 60Hz ACWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  In terms of climate, the worst time to visit Eritrea is June through August, when the rainfall is at its highest in the highlands and the west, and when the eastern lowlands are sun-baked to within an inch of their geographical existence; the best times are from March to April and September to October. You might also want to time your visit to coincide with one or more of the region's prime religious festivals, such as Timkat (January) or Meskel (September).     Events  The biggest and most colourful religious festivals are centred around Christian Orthodox holidays. Picks of the bunch are Timkat (Epiphany) on 19 January and Meskel ((Finding of the True Cross) on 27 September; others include Kiddus Yohannes (Orthodox New Year) on 11 September and Leddet (Christmas) on 7 January. National holidays include Workers' Day (1 May), Martyr's Day (20 June) and Start of the Armed Struggle (1 September).    
africa_eritrea_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  About 220km (136mi) north of Asmara is what appears at first glance to be just a remote, high-altitude collection of iron shacks, but Nakfa is a lot more than that. During much of Eritrea's long fight for independence, Nakfa served as the headquarters of the country's resistance movement and so became one of the more popular spots for touring Ethiopian bombs and bullets. The town has since been rewarded by becoming, in the eyes of Eritreans, a symbol of their hard-fought-for independence - not to mention by having the country's currency named after it. A visit to Nakfa, which entails a fairly arduous road trip, will give you a better understanding of what took place on the country's battlefields and will also take you to the heart of the collective Eritrean self-determination.  During wartime, the Eritrean soldiers literally lay low by building underground towns where they could make weapons, print pro-independence literature and tend to their wounded without exposing themselves to the eyes of the Ethiopian military, and many of these underground facilities are still accessible. Near Nakfa are the twin peaks of Den Den, a mountain that served as the rebels' radio transmission 'tower' during the war and which provides clear views of the surrounding area and all its battle scars. The last building left standing in town during the worst of the Ethiopian bombardments was the Nakfa Mosque, still standing now and still wearing the hole that was blown in its cupola.  
africa_ethiopia_activities.html:  Activities  With its spectacular bird life, Ethiopia has plenty to keep even the most discerning twitcher busy - the Rift Valley lakes are among the best spots for bird watching. There aren't many places to get away from it all in this populous country, but Entoto National Park, near Addis Ababa, has some lovely walks. There's also trekking and mule-treks in Bale Mountains National Park and Simien Mountains National Park. If you're visiting Bahar Dar, on Lake Tana, hire a bike in town and take a ride around the water's edge. Lake Langano is the only bilharzia-free lake in the country, so if you want to swim, this is the place to do it.  
africa_ethiopia_attractions.html:  Attractions  There are plenty of people in the Ethiopian capital - of the 3 million bodies who live here, 1 million have arrived since the 1991 revolution. The city was only founded in 1887, and was nearly abandoned due to lack of fuel wood until the introduction of eucalypts to the area. It's a huge, sprawling place, with very few street signs, although the main shopping strip, Churchill Ave, is labelled.  The city's Ethnographic Museum is well worth the price of admission. Its two main sections on local crafts and on regions and peoples make it an ideal place to start learning about Ethiopia's rich ethnic diversity. It also has an impressive array of religious crosses, triptychs and murals, as well as Haile Selassies's bedroom and bathroom. The National Museum is much smaller, but it does have the fossils of 3.5-million-year-old 'Lucy', perhaps our earliest ancestor.   Africa Hall is the headquarters of the United Nations Ecomonic commission for Africa, and was designed as a monument to African independence. Its huge, richly coloured stained-glass windows, by Ethiopian artist Afewerk Tekle, portray the history and diversity of Africas peoples. If you'd like to see more of Tekle's work, visit the Giorgis Cathedral, built in 1896 to commemorate Ethiopia's victory over the invading Italians. Addis Ababa's Mercato is one of the largest markets in Africa. It's a sprawling mess of open-air stalls, where you can buy everything from vegetables to gold jewellery - keep an eye out for pickpockets.  Many cheap hotels in Addis Ababa are a combination of noisy street bar, brothel and a few double rooms, though some are suprisingly well kept. Expect to pay two to four times the local rate. Most hotels are around the Piazza, where you'll also find a bunch of cheap cafes and bars. Although the Italians were only here five years, you'll find good Italian eateries all over the city.  
africa_ethiopia_environment.html:  Environment  Ethiopia sits landlocked on the eastern side of the continent, the Horn of Africa. To its west is Sudan, to the north Eritrea, to the east the tiny country of Djibouti and Somalia, which also stretches around the southern border, and to the south Kenya. Ethiopia covers about 1,127,000 sq km (439,530 sq mi), and is dominated by a high central plateau, cut by deep gorges including the Great Rift Valley. Only around 12% of Ethiopia is used for agriculture - mainly around the flood plains of the Blue Nile, in the west of the country, and in the highlands - and most of this is subsistence growing.  Ethiopia's forests are declining alarmingly. Because of the demands for fuel, construction and fencing, at least 77% of the country's tree cover has been cut down in the last 25 years. In the late 19th century, Australian eucalypts were introduced to reverse the deforestation trend, but the fast-growing plants have actually made things worse - local animals don't like them, and nothing grows around their roots, so eucalypt forests are highly prone to soil erosion. Ethiopian wildlife isn't doing too well either, so if you're after a safari you'll be better off elsewhere in Africa. There are plenty of antelope species and a couple of monkey and baboon species. But if its birds you're after, you've come to the right place - there are more than 20 endemic species in the country, and you won't have to travel far afield to find them.  Although Ethiopia is relatively close to the equator, the central plateau has a temperate climate, with an average annual temperature of 16 C (60 F). Only in the east, towards the Red Sea, and west, near Sudan, does it get very hot. The kremt, or main rainy season, occurs between mid-June and mid-September, and there's also a bit of light rain in March and April.  
africa_ethiopia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Everyone except Kenyan nationals needs a visa. Visas are single entry.Health risks: Bilharzia (schistosomiasis), contaminated drinking water, AIDS, malaria, parasites, land mines. Yellow fever vaccinations are compulsory.Time: GMT/UTC + 3 hoursElectricity: 220V or 240V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Ethiopia is pretty pleasant all year round, with temperatures in Addis Ababa averaging around 20 C (68 F) no matter what season it is. Fairly heavy rain falls in the middle of the year, so it's probably best to avoid June and July.     Events  On 19 January, Ethiopian Christians celebrate Christ's baptism at the festival of Timkat. During the festival, which runs for three days, priests remove the symbolic Ark of the Covenant from every church and parade it to a nearby consecrated pool. Giant Masses are held, accompanied by late night picnics. Ethiopian New Year, Enkutatash is celebrated on 11 September, which is also the feast of John the Baptist. Enkutatash is a spring festival, with kiddies dancing in the streets, handing out flowers and miniature paintings, bonfires and plenty of singing and dancing. On 27 September another Christian festival, Maskal, commemorates the finding of the True Cross on which Christ was crucified. Town squares are filled with huge piles of maskal, or 'cross', daisies, which later become giant bonfires. Ethiopian Orthodox Christmas is celebrated on 7 January.    
africa_ethiopia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  About 750km north of Addis Ababa, Gondar was the capital of Ethiopia from its foundation by Emperor Fasilidas in 1632 until 1886. The piazza - a grandiose name for an unremarkable small square - is the heart of the modern town. It's look a worth inside the 76,000 sq m Royal Enclosure for a glimpse of the castle built in 1640. Your ticket also admits you to the royal Bath of Fasilldas, about 2km out of town on the Bahar Dar road.  Don't be persuaded to visit the 'Falasha village,' about 7km out of town; there's only one Falasha left after the mass emigration to Israel - and even her credentials are dubious.  
africa_gabon_activities.html:  Activities  In addition to being good exercise, cycling is a good way to get around. Cyclists tend to make contact with locals much more easily than do other travellers. And of course you see a lot more of the countryside. The best time to try it is during the dry season, when pedalling will be easier and drivers stand a better chance of staying in control of their vehicles.   Football (soccer) is extremely popular in Gabon, as it is throughout the region. Pickup games in villages, universities and municipal stadiums are generally easy to get in. Basketball is also popular, and foreigners are usually welcomed into games.   Squash is popular in the capital and in Port-Gentil. You'll find tennis courts and swimming pools in Libreville and other large towns. Beaches at the larger hotels in the capital and at Port-Gentil offer decent sands, and some of them will rent you a sailboard. There's also some decent diving to be had near the capital.  There's some good hiking in Gabon. You can climb to the top of Mont Nkoum, near Oyem, or around the Boundji Waterfalls outside of Lastoursville. You can also go caving near Limbenga.  
africa_gabon_attractions.html:  Attractions  With its big ocean-view hotels, office buildings, wide highways, fancy shops and cavalcades of taxis, Libreville looks more like a Miami Beach in the making than a major African city. Just to prove the point, its prices are big-time cosmopolitan as well: Libreville is one of the most expensive cities in the world. Every creature comfort is close to hand, but be prepared to pay for them.  There's no lack of nightlife, either: the African quarters are full of fairly cheap places to eat and drink. They're easy to get to, not half as dangerous or rough as some other African capitals, and the hard-partying locals are always up for a beer or two. Be warned though: The Gabonese are the world's 20th-largest consumer of French champagne, don't mind a tipple or ten of anything and have enormous stamina. What may be a ragged night out on the tiles for you may be just a normal day for them.  The Musee des Arts et Traditions is one of the best in Central Africa and definitely worth a visit as long as you can find it. It's poorly marked but is next to the Elf Gabon building in town. The Fang, Teke and Mitsogho masks are some of the best examples around, and are complemented by the wonderful collection of small carved harps, baskets and an authentic Mitsogho temple. The lively guide is an added bonus to the tour, but relies on well-earnt tips from the punters.   L'Eglise St-Michel is a landmark church because of its 31 unusual wooden columns, carved by a blind Gabonese craftsman, each with a biblical scene. Equally interesting is the choir, which is accompanied by drums and balafons. The vibrant Marche du Mont-Bou t, about a kilometre east of the city centre compares favourably with the best markets in the region.  The Palais Presidentiel overlooks the heart of town and is as much Bongo's paean to Western culture as it is to Gabon might. It was built during the heady days of the 1970s boom at a cost of US$800 million. This paid for the imported Italian marble and Greek columns. Unfortunately photographs are forbidden, and visitors aren't allowed inside.  If it's deserted beaches you're after, then you've only got a choice of two: Pointe-Denis and Ekwata Beach. Both are on the northern end of the peninsula on the southern side of the Estuaire du Gabon. Except for a fisher or two, both beaches are blissfully deserted and have the lay-back charm of a sleepy backwater. When the beachy theme gets too much, you can wander around the nearby forests, or get a bite to eat, listen to music and sink a few at the local bars in the fishing villages nearby. You can camp or stay at one of the chalets at Pointe-Denis. Outboard canoes leave for both beaches from Port M le and run on erratic schedules.  The airport is several kilometres north of town.The seaport and railway terminal are in Owendo, 10km (6mi) south of central Libreville. Taxis are available, though if you walk from the airport to the main drag your fare will be cut in half. There are private red and white minibuses cruising all the major thoroughfares. Rental cars are hugely expensive and often restricted to use in and around Libreville.  
africa_gabon_environment.html:  Environment  Lying flush on the west coast of Africa and straddling the equator, Gabon is about half the size of France and a hundred times more fertile. It's bordered by Equatorial Guinea to the north-west, Cameroon to the north, and Congo (Brazzaville) to the east and south.  Gabon's coastal strip rises in an ascending arpeggio of plateaus until it reaches the interior where the mountains peaks at over 1500m (4920ft). Nearly three-quarters of the country (one of the highest rates in Africa) is covered in tropical rainforests with only one minuscule percent falling under the agricultural axe. This unfettered lushness and the deep river valleys that dissect the country make getting around a challenge. The major artery of Gabon, the Ogooue River, almost cuts the country in half as it passes through Franceville and Lambarene and rushes toward the Atlantic Ocean. At the mouth of the river is Port-Gentil, the heartbeat of Gabon's lucrative oil industry, which pans out into the filigreed coastline with its miles of breathtaking but almost inaccessible estuaries. Vast wetlands stretch inland from the coast.  Gabon is principally known for its tropical rainforests but also has coastal woodland areas and open savannah grasslands where the coastal plains meet the forests. Within the rainforests there is an encyclopedic range of flora from the climbing palms, rubber vines, and liana of cartoon jungles to hardwood trees like purpleheart, ebony and mahogany. The hardwoods, including the okoume (unique to central Africa) and Ozigo tree, represent cash crops of significant value.  Both the floor and the roof of the rainforests are alive with animals: snakes, vipers and pythons slither around hunting for field mice, insects and small animals that just ran out of luck; hedgehogs, porcupines and tortoises lumber around the forest floor; squirrels, monkeys, baboons, lemurs, toucans and African parrots occupy the trees; crocodiles and hippopotamuses claim the river banks; big game animals - antelopes, buffaloes and elephants roam the grasslands; and even gorillas, endangered in most other parts of Africa, are so numerous in Gabon they've become an environmental nuisance. Despite the plethora of wildlife, actually getting a glimpse of them is another thing altogether. The growth is so dense that many parts of the rainforest are inaccessible.  The climate is hot - the average daily high is 31 C (88 F) in April and rarely dips below 27 C (81 F) any other time of the year. It's also extremely muggy most of the year. The dry season extends from May to September, with a short dry spell in mid-December.  
africa_gabon_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors need visas, proof of onward travel and an invitation from a resident or citizen of Gabon (though these last two requirements may be waived at embassies in adjoining countries). Gabonese authorities rejected some valid visas on a seemingly arbitrary basis during the elections in December 1998; this practice may still be in effect.Health risks: Cholera, yellow fever, malariaTime: GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit Gabon is during the dry season (May to September). The rest of the year is one muggy, scorching hot day after another, with heavy rain from evening till morning.     Events  The biggest celebration of the year is the three-day Independence Day bash, with festivities more evident in the towns and villages than in Libreville. Muslims in Gabon celebrate the major Islamic holidays, including Ramadan, a month of fasting from sunrise to sunset. Eid al-Fitr celebrates the end of Ramadan with a feast, beginning on the evening of the 30th day. The centre of attention is usually a roasted sheep or goat. Also known as Eid al-Adha or the Great Feast, Tabaski is the most important celebration for Muslims in Gabon. They kill a sheep to commemorate the moment when Abraham was about to sacrifice his son in obedience to God's command, only to have God intercede at the last moment and substitute a ram instead.    
africa_gabon_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Iguela is a good place for a spot of fishing and is home to a fine wildlife reserve where forest elephants, buffalos, warthogs, crocodiles, monkeys, lowland gorillas and many species of birds hang out. The best time to go is between April and October when the weather is drier and travelling around the reserve is easier. The reserve is 300km (185mi) south of Libreville. There are flights between Libreville and Omboue, a few kilometres north of Iguela. During dry spells you can sometimes get to Omboue and Iguela from the Lambarene-Louila road.  
africa_gambia_activities.html:  Activities  The beaches of the Atlantic coast resorts are safe for swimming and get better the farther south you go. All of the major hotels have swimming pools and rent equipment for water sports such as sailboarding, water skiing and kneeboarding. Fishing excursions can be arranged in Banjul.   Cycling is not only good exercise, but it can be a great way to get around and tour Gambia. Bikes are available for rent - anything from a lightweight mountain bike to an ancient, single-gear, sit-up-and-beg roadster - in many tourist areas.   Football (soccer) is Africa's most popular game, and informal pick-up matches can be found in just about any town or village. Foreigners are usually warmly welcomed, and joining a game may be one of the best ways to meet the locals. If you bring along your own ball (which could be deflated for travelling), you'll be the hit of the day. Wrestling is also very popular, with a sort of anything-goes mentality making the sport that much more exciting. Matches are held year round.  Even amateur ornithologists will delight in the bird-watching possibilities to be had in The Gambia. Your best bet is to head to one of the country's national parks or reserves in the early morning or late afternoon. Migratory birds make the rounds between October and April.  
africa_gambia_attractions.html:  Attractions  One of the smallest capital cities in Africa, Banjul lies on an island at the mouth of the Gambia River, separated from the mainland by a narrow creek. Unable to grow, the city has been stagnant for years, giving it a sleepy, down-at-heel ambience, more like a large village than a national centre. If you've come to The Gambia to experience Africa, rather than a slice of Europe laid down on a tropical beach, this city is a far better bet than the nearby Atlantic coast resorts.  The vibrant heart of Banjul is Albert Market, a good place to pass a couple of hours strolling and shopping for clothes, shoes, fruits and vegetables, household goods and local handicrafts. Colourful, lively and chaotic, the market scene is Banjul at its African best. Nearby on MacCarthy Square, look for the War Memorial and the Fountain, erected to commemorate the coronation of Britain's King George VI in 1937.  Though some of its exhibits are looking a bit dog-eared these days, the National Museum of the Gambia is worth visiting for its displays of photos, maps and text about archaeology, African peoples and the colonial period. Not far off, the 35m (115ft) Arch 22 is by far the tallest building in Gambia. Built to celebrate the military coup of 22 July 1994 (led by Lieutenant Yahya Jammeh, now Gambia's president), the arch provides excellent views over the city and the coast, and it's open to the public daily.  When you're ready to get out of the city itself, local pirogues (skinny wooden boats with an outboard motor) ferry visitors on the quiet waterways of Oyster Creek, the main waterway separating Banjul island and the mainland. The creek (locally called a bolong) is a popular destination for bird-watchers, anglers and anyone keen to just laze around on a boat. The dense mangroves are particularly interesting.  
africa_gambia_environment.html:  Environment  With a total area less than that of the Bahamas or the US state of Connecticut, Gambia ranks as one of the smallest countries in the big lump that is West Africa. Its boundaries resemble a long and winding length of intestine, roughly 35km (20mi) wide and 300km (185mi) long, with the Gambia River, the country's most notable geographical feature, dividing the nation lengthwise neatly in two. Gambia's western boundary is the Atlantic Ocean; otherwise, the country is entirely engulfed by Senegal.  The country's landscape is so flat that in the Gambia River's 450km (280mi) meandering course, it drops in elevation only about 10m (30ft). The river ecology is easily divided into two distinct zones, estuarine and freshwater, which in turn largely determine the peripheral vegetation pattern. Salt water sneaks in some 150km (95mi) upstream, as far as Kantaur in the dry season (November to June). In the lower estuary, mangroves dominate the riverside, with extensive reed belts in the in-between zone, while where the water is fresh, the banks are lined with gallery forest. Away from the river, The Gambia's position in the southern Sahel, a semi-arid region south of the Sahara desert, means natural vegetation is more or less limited to dry grassland and open savanna.  Over 600 species of bird have been recorded in Gambia, a concentration well out of proportion to its small size. Abuko Nature Reserve is the best place close to Banjul to go looking for them, but there are five other national parks and reserves where the fauna is equally abundant. Tanji River Bird Reserve on the coast is an important stopover for migrating birds, particularly waterfowl, which return in large numbers each winter from Europe. The River Gambia National Park is the place to see monkeys and chimpanzees; Abuko Nature Reserve is also a good reserve to see monkeys.  The Gambian climate is characterised by a long dry season (from November to May) and a short rainy season (from June to October), with August by far the rainiest month. The country's average daytime high temperatures range from 24 C (75 F) from December to February to 30 C (86 F) from June to September. Temperatures are mildest along the coastline, and the amount and duration of rainfall lessens as you head inland. Humidity is only a problem just before the rains begin in June.  
africa_gambia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of the member countries of ECOWAS, all Commonwealth countries, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Iceland, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain and Sweden do not need a visa/entry permit for a maximum of 28 days. Otherwise, there is a visa fee (American citizens are exempt) plus a processing fee for all other applicantsHealth risks: Tick-borne encephalitis, hepatitis, yellow fever, rabies, typhoid fever and malaria (particularly bad up-country in the wet season)Time: same as GMT/UTCElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to travel in Gambia is from November to February, when conditions are dry and relatively cool. However, around this same time of year the dry, dusty harmattan winds blow off the Sahara. December to February is the local trading season, assuming the rains come when they should, and everybody's a little more relaxed than usual, perhaps with a bit of extra money to spend, so the markets are at their liveliest. During the wet season (June to October), popular tourist areas are less crowded and cheaper, and the country still gets an average of five hours of sunlight per day. The only problem you're likely to notice is some smaller dirt roads washing away. The peak tourist season lasts from October through April, which coincides with the visits of the migratory birds.     Events  The Islamic (or Hejira) calendar is a full 11 days shorter than the Gregorian (Western) calendar, so public holidays and festivals fall 11 days earlier each year. In March then February for the next few years, Ras as-Sana is the Islamic celebration of the new year. Tabaksi (also called Eid al-Kebir), an important two-day festival commemorating the moment when God substituted a ram for Abraham's son as he was about to slay him at God's command, will be in early February or late January for the next few years. Eid al-Moulid celebrates the prophet Mohammed's birthday around May. Ramadan is celebrated during the ninth month of the Islamic calendar (presently in October), commemorating the month when the Quran was revealed to Mohammed. Out of deference, Muslims take neither food nor water until after sunset each day. At the end of Ramadan (called Eid al-Fitr), the fasting breaks amid much celebration.  Though not so important as it is in Senegal, Grand Magal (48 days after Ras as-Sana) celebrates the return from exile of the founder of the Mouride Islamic Brotherhood. On a secular note, the International Roots Festival is a new but highly publicised annual celebration aimed at getting Americans and Europeans of African descent back in touch with Africa. Festivities include displays of Gambian music, dance, art and craftwork, plus excursions to historical sites - including, of course, the Roots village of Jufureh - as well as seminars and educational workshops. The festival takes place in late June and/or early July.  Other Public Holidays:1 January - New Year's Day18 February - Independence DayMarch or April - Good Friday, Easter Monday1 May - Workers DayJune or July - Eid al-Moulid22 July - Anniversary of the Second Republic25 December - Christmasback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to GambiaTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
africa_gambia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Basse Santa Su - more commonly referred to as Basse - is Gambia's easternmost town and the largest and liveliest of the upriver settlements. It's also the last major ferry-crossing point and a transport hub for the surrounding area. The most interesting sections of town are the waterfront and the market, the latter especially on Thursday, when the streets are lined with shops and stalls. The whole place comes alive nightly when the town's drink stalls open and grilled-meat shacks fire up.  Down by the waterfront, an colonial warehouse dating from 1916 has been converted into a museum, cultural centre, bookshop and restaurant called Traditions. There's a fair amount of high-quality stuff on offer, as well as glimpses of the artists and artisans at work. If the shopping bug really has you itching, several of Basse's surrounding villages host a weekly lumo (market), where traders and shoppers come from all over Gambia as well as from nearby countries to participate in the events.  
africa_ghana_activities.html:  Activities  Ghana boasts some beautiful sandy beaches and lagoons, though swimming can be dangerous due to riptides and undertows. For a less risky dip, try the pools in Accra's big hotels. Jogging is also popular along the beaches near Accra, though you may have to sidestep human excreta. Beyond the sands, sport fishing for barracuda is popular, and if the fish aren't biting, at least the old seaside forts and villages look spectacular from the sea. The Volta River estuary is another good place to drop a line. Sailing and water-skiing are possible on Lake Volta. The two best spots for surfing are at Fete and Dixcove, both west of Accra. Kakum Nature Park, Owabi Wildlife Sanctuary, Bia National Park, Bui National Park and Mole Game Reserve are all good options for hiking, wildlife watching and exploring the savannahs and rainforests.  
africa_ghana_attractions.html:  Attractions  As a savoury blending of big-city bustle and African ease, Ghana's seaside capital is second to none on the continent. At once sprawling and accessible, rambunctious yet friendly, it's a city run by native Ghanaians, and their pride in their product shows. Best of all, even as popular as Accra's become in recent years, you still won't trip over Westerners at every third step. The best introduction to the city is a good browse in one of its main hawking grounds. Right at the heart of central Accra, the Makola Market brims with glass bead and batik sellers, while Kaneshie Market on the western side of the city is the one to hit for mouthwatering foods and spices. James Town, on a short peninsula south-west of the centre, is a handsome if dilapidated neighbourhood that's also worth a wander.  A huge military parade ground backed by the sea and capable of holding 30,000 people, Independence Square is to Accra what Red Square is to Moscow, minus any building of note. The square is just east of central Accra; while you practice your goose-stepping, notice Osu Castle - Accra's most historic structure - in the distance. Disappointingly, it's now the seat of government and off-limits to visitors. The Arts Centre, between the city centre and Independence Square, is where artisans gather to sell their wares and entertainers come to take advantage of the crowds. Count on catching some type of dancing, singing, jamming or traditional theatre performance. The Arts Centre is also the best craft market in the country.  Accra is famous throughout West Africa for its vibrant nightlife, especially its dance clubs, which centre around Nkrumah Circle. Rasta togs and dreadlocks usually mark the entrance to the hippest spots. Accra's beaches are another big draw, but the best ones are all a few kilometres outside of town. Coco Beach, east in Nungua, is accessible by tro-tro, but the nicest ones to the west all require private transport. Accra has some well established Internet cafes although they can be a little slow. New spots to surf, with faster connection times, are springing up all the time.  
africa_ghana_environment.html:  Environment  Though slightly smaller than the US state of Oregon, Ghana is one of the most densely populated countries in West Africa. It lies south of Burkina Faso, between Togo to the east and the C te d'Ivoire to the west, on the Gulf of Guinea. Most of the country is made up of wooded hill ranges, wide valleys and low-lying coastal plains, though the northern third of the country is thick with rainforests. A fair chunk of central Ghana was swallowed by Lake Volta in 1964, when the Volta River was dammed and the lake swelled to become one of the largest in Africa.  The south-western area of Lake Volta is the site of the massive Kujani Game Reserve/Digya National Park, Ghana's largest protected area, which is known for its hippos, water buck, crocodiles and manatees. North-west of the lake is Ghana's best known national park, the Mole Game Reserve, where you can see lions, leopards and over 300 species of bird. Outside of these and a few other parks and reserves, you're unlikely to run into much of Ghana's wildlife, mostly because inroads to the outback are so limited. While you're here, though, keep your eyes peeled for signs of antelope, wild boar, forest elephant, the occasional big cat, a few species of monkey and interesting bird life.  While Ghana's average temperatures show little variety - floating between 25 C (75 F) and 29 C (84 F) - it's the thick humidity that you'll remember. There are three rainfall zones. Along the coast (including Accra), the rainfall is light and the rainy season lasts from April until June with a short spell in October. In the interior forests, the rains are heavier and last longer. In the north, the weather becomes drier, with only one rainy season, which lasts from May to September.  
africa_ghana_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors are required to have a visa, except for citizens of countries belonging to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)Health risks: Cholera, malaria, yellow fever, bilharzia (schistosomiasis). Due to heavy flooding in the Upper West, Upper East and Northern regions, there was an outbreak of cholera with 1500 cases reported in late 1999.Time: same as GMT/UTCElectricity: 220V/240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  There really is no 'best' time to visit Ghana, as the temperature is always Africa-hot and if rainfall doesn't soak you, then the humid air will. If you prefer your soaking tropical in nature, stick close to the beaches. Whatever the season, the weather gets more arid the farther inland you go. Village-specific festivals and events occur throughout the year.     Events  The 42 day cycle of the Ashanti religious calendar culminates in Kumasi - the 'City of the Golden Stool' - with Akwasidee, a public ceremony at the palace involving the main chiefs and priests. The Aboakyer, or Deer Hunt Festival, is held in May in Winnebah. Elmina's Bakatue Festival, celebrating the beginning of the fishing season, is held the first Tuesday of July, with local chiefs parading through town in full regalia, followed by singers, dancers and stilt walkers. On the first Saturday in September, a raucous carnival called the Fetu Festival takes place in Cape Coast, featuring an all-day parade of local chiefs. The Pan-African Historical Theatre Festival (Panafest) - a spectacle-heavy cross-cultural dramafest - is held across Ghana in December of even-numbered years. National holidays include Independence Day on 6 March, Republic Day on 1 July and Revolution Day on 31 December.    
africa_ghana_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Just beyond the town of Aburi, the Aburi Botanical Gardens provide a welcome getaway from the bustle of Accra. The gardens are well maintained and teem with a variety of exotic plant life from around the world. Two tall and well-named 'monkey pot' trees from Brazil are supposedly able to trap our tree-swinging ancestors - not that Aburi has too many wild monkeys to worry about. The oldest tree is an approximately 150-year-old kapok facing the park's beautiful headquarters building. It's the only one the British didn't cut down when they were planting the gardens, which opened in 1890. The gardens are perched on a ridge 32km (20mi) north of Accra. Tro-tro are available from Tema Station in Accra, and there are several places to stay and eat in nearby Aburi.  
africa_guinea_activities.html:  Activities  You can swim at several beaches near Conakry and further afield, and the best hiking in the country is in the beautiful Fouta Djalon region.  
africa_guinea_attractions.html:  Attractions  Conakry has a strong African flavour. If you stroll around the streets on a Sunday you're likely to come across a street celebration, with groups of men playing local instruments and people dancing. The city squats on a narrow peninsula, which puts the sea very close on three sides, but gives it no room to grow. Consequently, its northern spread makes it difficult to travel from one end to the other, particularly as the traffic is heavy. The main north-south street is the Autoroute, called the Route du Niger closer to the centre and the Ave de la Republique in the heart of town. It's been attractively landscaped, and clustered around it are the banks, airline offices and plenty of restaurants.  The Musee National has a reasonable collection of masks, statues and musical instruments on display in one large room, with free entrance. The Palais de l'OUA was going to be the venue for the OAU conference until Sekou Toure died, and it now serves as the office of the president. Don't go near it at night as you're not allowed there and the guards on duty are reportedly quick to shoot. Opposite the palace are 50 identical moorish-style villas, now used as offices by international organisations like UNICEF, the IMF and the World Bank. The Palais du Peuple is a huge, Chinese-built auditorium at the northern end of the Route du Niger, and is the home of the two national ballet troupes.  The  les de Los are a group of small islands five to 10km (3 to 6mi) south-west of town, and are popular on Sundays and public holidays. You can hire a motorised pirogue from the beach near the Novotel to get there.  There's little in the way of cheap accommodation in Conakry (it starts at about US$25 per person), and the few attractions may not hold your interest for long. Street crime in Conakry has also increased considerably, particularly around the central Marche du Niger, so you should always be on your guard. Unfortunately, the Marche is one of the best places to get street food, although there are several budget restaurants around the centre of town. If you decide to skip Conakry altogether, Coyah, about 50km (31mi) to the north, has reasonable rooms and generally lacks the hassle of the capital.  
africa_guinea_bissau_activities.html:  Activities  Sort out your spokes: Guinea-Bissau is great bicycling country. Bikes are easy to come by if you ask around, and on much of the mainland and the islands, this is the best way to get about. Swimming is another popular activity off the islands' beaches, and some hotels offer deep-sea fishing and other water sports.  With its abundance of natural parks and unspoilt wilderness wildlife-watching is a common pastime, so pack your binoculars. Some areas are also good for hiking.  
africa_guinea_bissau_attractions.html:  Attractions  From Portuguese slave-trading centre in 1687 to free port in 1869 and capital of Guinea-Bissau in 1941, this buzzing town has seen it all. It's calmer than cities in neighbouring Senegal, but with hotspots for night owls and cultural sites for history buffs, there is something to interest most visitors.  The main street, Avenida Am lcar Cabral, runs from the Pra a dos Her is Nacionais at its northern end down to the port and the old Portuguese quarter, with its endearing winding streets and Mediterranean-style houses. By the port the Pidjiguiti Monument honours the striking dockworkers who were shot by police on August 3, 1959. East of here is the Fortaleza d'Amura whose imposing bulk is unfortunately closed to visitors (and guarded by men with guns); revolutionary hero Am lcar Cabral is buried here. The presidential palace is at the other end of the avenue, but put your cameras away, no snaps are allowed. For local art and artefacts the Museu Nacional is small but interesting.  The Centro Artistico Juvenil, which has work by young local artists, is a good place to pick up arts and crafts; you can also watch craftsmen at work. As for markets, Mercado Central has colourful fruit stalls, Senegalese-style clothing and souvenirs. The Mercado de Bandim has fewer arts and crafts but wins on fresh produce.  Bissau has a number of places to stay, ranging from rooms in locals' houses to hotels with clean, air-conditioned accommodation. Minibuses go to Bafat and Gab . Ferries service the islands of Bubaque and Bolama, and Enxude and Cati .  
africa_guinea_bissau_environment.html:  Environment  At just over 36,000 sq km (14,000 sq mi), Guinea-Bissau is one of the smaller West African countries (about the same size as Switzerland). The north of the country borders the Casamance region of Senegal, and the east and south edge the Republic of Guinea. Off the coast are the paradise islands of the Bijagos Archipelago. Inlets indent the flat coastal areas, which are covered with mangrove swamps, low-lying jungle and grassland. The highest point of the country (300m/1000ft above sea level) is by the Guinea border. The lowest areas are occasionally submerged by high tides; floods have been known to cover a third of the country.  Increased rice production in these flood-traps has incurred the worrying destruction of mangrove swamps, and groundnut (peanut) production is slowly ridding the soil of essential nutrients. Maize and other crops are also grown on the inland savanna. The islands of the archipelago are home to woodland and mangroves. Guinea-Bissau's wildlife includes birds, monkeys, chimpanzees, elephants, lizards and butterflies. The Orango Islands National Park and the proposed Poilao Marine Park are within Guinea-Bissau's premier protected area, the Bolama-Bijagos Biosphere Reserve. The Cacheu Natural Park near Senegal and the Cantanhez Natural Park in the south protect mangroves and forest. Near Buba, the Cafada Natural Park shelters a freshwater wetland area. These national parks have little or no facilities for tourists.  Guinea-Bissau's rainy season is from June to October, with August the wettest month. The rainfall is twice as heavy on the coast as on the mainland, and conditions are hot and humid. You can dry out in November to February, when it's cooler and there's a pleasant sea breeze on the islands and the coast. Sweat levels in March to May are seriously antisocial.  
africa_guinea_bissau_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are required for all travellers. They are not available at land borders but you can get them from embassies, and at the Bissau airport if you're arriving from an African country that doesn't issue them. Extensions can be purchased at Bissau's central police station.Health risks: Malaria, cholera, hepatitis A, schistosomiasis, typhoid, yellow fever (a vaccination certificate is required if you're coming from an infected area)Time: GMT/UTCElectricity: 220VWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  December and January are the driest, coolest months and the best time to visit. In February the weather is also good, and you can party at the colourful Bissau carnival. Travelling can be more difficult during the rainy season (June to October), when minor roads are a bit of a wash out and getting public transport to remote spots is a challenge. March to May are the hottest months, with daytime temperatures reaching 34 C (93 F) and humidity levels very high; daily maximums rarely dip below 30 C(86 F) throughout the year.     Events  Guinea-Bissau's biggest annual bash is the Latin-style Bissau carnival in February when parades, music and dancing fill the streets and locals get festive with costumes and masks. Other towns have smaller festivals throughout the year; dates are not fixed so you need to check with the locals. Various Islamic holidays such as Eid al-Fitr (end of Ramadan) and Tabaski are also observed.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 20 January - Death of Am lcar Cabral 8 March - International Women's day 1 May - May Day 3 August - Pidjiguiti Day 24 September - Independence 25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to Guinea-BissauTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
africa_guinea_bissau_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track   The 18-plus islands off the coast of Guinea-Bissau make up the Bijagos Archipelago, a Biosphere Reserve. Apart from Bubaque and Bolama, the islands are rarely visited by tourists and many of the Bijag -speaking islanders have never ventured from their homes. These more remote islands offer an opportunity to see unspoilt wilderness and beaches, as well as fascinating indigenous culture and traditions.  The islands to the northwest have stunning beaches and clear water; there's an airstrip on Caravela, so if you're feeling flash you can charter a plane. The southern Orango group of islands are a national park harbouring saltwater hippos, crocodiles and birds in palm groves and woodland. It's also one of the largest nesting sites for the green and Ridley turtle on the West African coast.  With the exception of Bubaque and Bolama, the islands are quite hard to get to; ferry connections are inconvenient and tourist facilities virtually nonexistent. But if you have time and perseverance, you can't get much farther off the beaten track.  
africa_guinea_environment.html:  Environment  Guinea is slightly larger than Britain, and you can get a handle on its geography by dividing it into four zones: the coastal plain (with Conakry on a peninsula thrusting out to the south-west); the north-western Fouta Djalon hill region (source of most of the Niger River); the northern dry lowlands; and the hilly, forested area of the south-east. Shaped like a boot sitting on its toe, Guinea basks on the shores of the equatorial North Atlantic near the bottom of the bulge of West Africa. Its neighbours are Guinea-Bissau, Senegal, Liberia, Mali, C te d'Ivoire and Sierra Leone, and it has 320km (198mi) of Atlantic coastline.  Guinea has no national parks; the forest elephants and other fauna have fended badly against poachers and loss of habitat through logging and the spread of cultivation. The eastern part of the country is heavily vegetated, although it is far from virgin forest because of fires and farming. The improving road system is a boon for travellers wanting to move around the country, but not so good for the forests as timber is now much more accessible than it was in the past.  Guinea is one of the wettest countries in West Africa, and May to October is the rainy season. Conakry receives over 4m (13ft) of rain a year, but the centre of the country receives less than half that. The cool weather falls between November and February, and from December to February the harmattan winds blow in from the Sahara and the skies of Guinea - and most of West Africa - are flushed with grey sand. On these mothers of all bad hair days, visibility can be reduced to 1km (0.6mi).  
africa_guinea_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Everyone needs a visa, and they cost between US$25 and US$50Health risks: Diarrhoea, hepatitis, AIDS/HIVTime:GMT/UTC time + 0 hoursElectricity: 220/240VWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The cool, dry period between November and February is the best time.     Events  The main events celebrated in Guinea are tied to the Muslim (lunar) calendar, and the dates vary from year to year.  Tabaski, also known as Eid-al-Kabir, is the most important celebration, when Muslims kill a sheep in commemoration of the time God asked Abraham to sacrifice his son, then interceded at the last moment and suggested a sheep instead. The second major Islamic holiday is the end of Ramadan, or  Eid-al-Fitr. Mohammed's Birthday, about three months after Tabaski, is also celebrated.    
africa_guinea_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Sometimes called Mali-ville to distinguish it from the country, Mali is the highest town in the Fouta Djalon. It has cool temperatures and exquisite views, and is ideal for hiking. Mt Loura (1538m, 5044ft) is 7km (4.3mi) north of town and worth seeing, and so is La Dame de Mali, a legendary rock a few km further on.  Mali is 120km (74mi) along an unmade road from Labe, and you get there by bush taxi. It is about 400km (248mi) north-east of Conakry.  
africa_kenya_activities.html:  Activities  The bleeding obvious Kenya activity is the safari, but there are many ways to safari. For something different, Camel safaris - in the Samburu and Turkana tribal areas between Isiolo and Lake Turkana - must rate as the most unforgettable. The country's most talked about wildlife park is the quintessential Masai Mara National Reserve west of Nairobi. Other highly rated parks include the Amboseli for its backdrop of Mt Kilimanjaro, the dense Kakamega with its 330-plus species of birds and the equally fecund soda lakes of Baringo or Nakuru.  For trekking, Mt Kenya tends to be the place and offers a range of routes, while getting to one of its higher peaks, Point Lenana, requires no climbing skills. Less trampled hiking vistas include Mt Elgon on the Ugandan border, and even the Ngong Hills near Nairobi (with an armed escort, though). Kenya is famous for its game-fishing opportunities off the coast around Malindi, and white-water rafting on the blood-curdling Athi/Galana River is becoming increasingly popular. For a superb, silent aerial overview of the Mara and Serengeti, several lodges in the Masai Mara National Reserve offer ballooning. Around coastal towns such as Malindi and the Lamu Archipelago, there's plenty of diving, windsurfing and good old beach lazing to be had.  
africa_kenya_attractions.html:  Attractions  Kenya's capital is cosmopolitan, lively, interesting, pleasantly landscaped and a good place to get essential business matters sewn up. You can walk from one end of the central business district to the other in 20 minutes and it's a great place to tune into modern urban African life. Unfortunately, it's also a great place to get mugged. Security, especially at night, is a definite concern and many travellers hate the place because of it. It's not known as 'Nairobbery' by residents for nothing.  Nairobi sprang up with the building of the Mombasa to Uganda railway. Originally little more than a swampy watering hole for Maasai tribes, it had became a substantial town by 1900. Five years later it succeeded Mombasa as the capital of the British protectorate. Today it's the largest city between Cairo and Johannesburg with a population of 2.5 million and a rapid growth rate.  Like most cities, Nairobi has its crowded market, trading and transport areas, its middle class/office workers' suburbs and its spacious mansions and flower-decked gardens for the rich and powerful. The first is an area full of energy, aspirations and opportunism where manual workers, exhausted matatu (minibus) drivers, the unemployed, the devious, the down-and out and the disoriented mingle with budget travellers, whores, shopkeepers, high-school students, food vendors, drowsy security guards and those with life's little illicit goodies for sale. Centrally located, it's called River Rd and even if you're not staying in the area it's worth a look. Most travellers favour central Nairobi as a place to stay and dine, but finding a good hotel on a quiet street can be tricky.  For sightseeing, the National Museum, Snake Museum and National Archives are all interesting and easy to get to. The latter contains far more than the usual dry documents, and includes painting and handcrafts exhibitions. Just outside the metropolis is the country's most accessible natural park, Nairobi National Park. If you have kids with you, the nearby Langata Giraffe Centre makes an entertaining day trip.  
africa_kenya_environment.html:  Environment  On Africa's east coast, Kenya straddles the equator and shares a border with Somalia, Ethiopia, Sudan, Uganda and Tanzania. Its coast is lapped by the Indian Ocean and it shares the vast waters of Lake Victoria with its western and southern neighbours. The Rift Valley and Central Highlands area form the backbone of the country, and this is where Kenya's scenery is at its most spectacular. The humid coastal belt includes the Tana River estuary and a string of good beaches. Western Kenya takes in the fertile fringes of Lake Victoria and, with the southern part of the country, some prime wildlife parks. The vast, arid northen region is where Kenya is at its wildest and most untouched by the modern world.  Kenya's flora and fauna defies easy description. The vast plains of the south are dotted with flat-topped acacia trees, thorn bushes and the distinctive bottle-shaped baobab tree. On the rarified slopes of Mt Elgon and Mt Kenya, bamboo forests sprout and even higher up is the bizarre groundsel tree, with its huge cabbage-like flowers, and giant lobelias with long spikes. If you're more into fur and feathers, then head for the teeming wildlife parks. Lions, buffalos, elephants, leopards and rhinos all cavort openly in at least two of the major parks. Endangered animals such as the black rhino are slowly making a comeback and sanctuaries for these creatures can be visited in Tsavo and Lake Nakuru national parks.  Kenya's climate varies enormously from place to place. The Rift Valley offers the most agreeable weather, while the arid bushlands and semi-desert regions can range from daytime highs of up to 40 Celsius to lows of about 20 Celsius at night. Western Kenya and the eastern coastal fringe are generally hot and humid year-round.  
africa_kenya_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors require a visa except citizens of some smaller Commonwealth countries. Apply well in advance for your visa - especially if doing it by mail.Health risks: Malaria (including in Nairobi and other moderately high-altitude areas), cholera, hepatitis, meningitis, mugging, typhoid, bilharzia, HIV, Rift Valley fever and yellow fever.Time: GMT/UTC plus three hoursElectricity: 240VWeights & measures: MetricTourism: About 500,000 visitors per year When to Go  The main tourist season is in January and February, since the hot, dry weather at this time of year is generally considered to be the most pleasant. It's also when Kenya's birdlife flocks to the Rift Valley lakes in the greatest numbers. June to September could be called the 'shoulder season' as the weather is still dry. The rains hit from March to May (and to a lesser extent from October to December). During these months things are much quieter - places tend to have rooms available and prices drop. The rains generally don't affect travellers' ability to get around.     Events  Kenya's most spectacular annual event is organised by an unlikely group - wildebeests. Literally millions of these ungainly antelopes move en masse in July and August from the Serengeti in search of lush grass. They head south again around October. The best place to see this phenomenon is at the Masai Mara National Reserve. Kenya's more orthodox annual events include public holidays such as Kenyatta Day (20 October) and Independence Day (12 December).    
africa_kenya_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Kakamega is a superb slab of virgin tropical rainforest in the heart of an intensively cultivated agricultural area of Western Kenya. It's home to a huge variety of birds and animals and is well worth the minimal effort required to get to it. The forest area of the reserve is where you'll find a number of primate species including the red-tailed monkey, black & white colobus monkey and the blue monkey. The best way to appreciate the forest is to walk, and there are several trail systems radiating from forest stations. The Forest Department maintains a superb rest house here and some excellent guides are available for hire.  
africa_lesotho_activities.html:  Activities  One of the most popular and exciting activities for travellers to Lesotho is pony trekking on the tough, sure-footed Basotho ponies. There are several trekking centres, though the one located on God Help Me Pass has a certain allure, if only for the chance of t-shirts.  Along the same lines, but without the safety of the cliff-climbing ponies, is hiking. With landscapes reminiscent of the Tibetan plateau (apparently), the hikes are dangerous and the weather freezing and treacherous. Be well prepared, bring all equipment with you and don't make Lesotho your first hiking experience.  Enjoying the great Lesotho outdoors doesn't have to mean being rescued from a ravine, however, with bird-watching and trout fishing among the more sedate pleasures. Nearly 300 bird species is pretty impressive for a landlocked country, with raptors being particularly prevalent. A fishing licence is required from the Ministry of Livestock for a nominal fee, and bag and size limits apply.  
africa_lesotho_attractions.html:  Attractions  Situated on the western border, Lesotho's capital has been a quiet backwater for most of its history, expanding rapidly only since the 1970s to its current population of a little over 200,000 people. Maseru paved its first road in 1947 for a visit by British royals, and for some years Kingsway remained the only such road in the country. For a 3rd world city in the middle of a period of massive expansion, however, Maseru manages to maintain a laid-back feel.  Surrounding the capital are 'urban villages', such as Phomolong where you can get a first-hand look at a more traditional lifestyle. In the town itself, there are several nightspots frequented by expats - mostly workers for aid organisations - who can give you advice about things to do during your stay in return for a beer or three.  
africa_lesotho_environment.html:  Environment  Lesotho (pronounced le-soo-too) is a mountainous kingdom completely surrounded by South Africa. It's roughly circular in shape and about the same size as Belgium. Lesotho's forbidding terrain and the defensive walls of the Drakensberg and Maluti ranges have given both sanctuary and strategic advantage to the Basotho (the people of Lesotho). All of Lesotho exceeds 1000m (3280ft) above sea level with peaks reaching to well over 3000m (9840ft). The tourist slogan, 'kingdom in the sky', is not far wrong, as Lesotho has the highest lowest point of any country in the world. To the west, the land descends through foothills to a lowland belt along the border where two-thirds of the population live. Three large rivers, the Orange, the Caledon and the Tugela, rise in the mountains.  For many, southern Africa's most impressive endowment is its flora, and Lesotho can claim a significant amount of credit for that, with a spectacular diversity of plantlife.  Incredible thunderstorms are common during the summer in Lesotho, with deadly lightning strikes reported every year. Eighty-five per cent of rainfall occurs from October to April, while snow occurs in the highlands from May to September. Despite the incredible storms, Lesotho usually boasts clear blue skies and more than 300 days of sunshine each year.  
africa_lesotho_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas:Citizens of most Western countries, Japan, Israel, the USA and most Commonwealth countries are granted an entry permit (free) at the border. The standard stay permitted is two weeks, although if you ask for longer you might get it.Health risks: Aside from the possibility of contaminated drinking water in remote areas, Lesotho shares with South Africa a pretty good record on health. Malaria is unknown due to the higher altitude, however precautions should still be taken, especially since nearby countries are succeptible. Also beware of storms, lightning strikes and freezing overnight temperatures.Time: GMT/UTC + 2 hoursElectricity: 220-250VWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Weather is probably the main consideration for travellers deciding the best time to go, and if you don't mind getting a little wet, it doesn't much matter. Nearly all of Lesotho's rain falls in the summer, between October and April. It's beautiful and warm when the sun comes out, but mountain areas can be foggy and freezing.     Events  Being predominantly Christian, Lesotho's national celebrations and holidays occur during the two main feasts of Easter and Christmas, as well as on Ascension Day in May. There are also public holidays to celebrate the great leader Moshoeshoe (11 March), the King's Birthday (17 July) and, of course, National Independence Day (4 October).    
africa_lesotho_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The first major town north of the Sani Pass, Mokhotlong (Place of the Bald Ibis) has basic shops and transport to Oxbow and Butha-Buthe. The town, 270km (170mi) from Maseru and 200km (125mi) from Butha-Buthe, has the reputation for being the coldest, driest and most remote place in Lesotho. And given the comparative lack of roads and transport, that's really saying something. There are a couple of places to stay, and the town is a good base for walks to the Drakensberg escarpment. Private transport is required to reach Mokhotlong from Maseru.  
africa_libya_activities.html:  Activities  Increasingly popular among tourists, desert safaris are the big guns in most tour providers' arsenals. One of the most popular destinations is the Idehan Ubari, with its towering sand dunes and desert lakes. Further south, the prehistoric rock art of the Jebal Acacus is also a major drawcard.  Libya's coastline is dappled with excellent beaches, some of which are all-natural and unadorned, while others have been thoroughly resortified. The ones closest to central Tripoli are usually somewhat messy, though the water's clean enough and they are convenient. For a more natural setting, try hitting the sands around Benghazi in Cyrenaica. A nascent diving industry has begun making bubbles in Libya, with the submerged ruins near Leptis Magna and Apollonia as their most exciting offerings, and there are a few water sports available at the beaches just south of Tripoli.  
africa_libya_attractions.html:  Attractions  Known as Tarabulus in Arabic and Oea in antiquity, Tripoli is the de facto capital of Libya, although there have been attempts in recent years to move some government departments to other areas of the country. Once known as the 'White Bride of the Mediterranean' (whatever that's supposed to mean), Tripoli has lost much of its pristine allure, though its many historic mosques and lively medina retain a good deal of character. The Turkish and Italian colonial periods also left a distinctive mark on the city's architecture, and best of all, Gaddafi's revolution has ensured the absence of billboards and other hallmarks of a modern commercial city.  Easily the most dominant feature of Tripoli is the Red Castle, Assai al-Hamra, which sits on the northern promontory overlooking what used to be the sea - a motorway and 500m (1640ft) of reclaimed land now separate the two. The massive structure comprises a labyrinth of courtyards, alleyways and houses built up over the centuries with a total area of around 13,000 sq metres (140,000 sq ft). Inside, look for evidence of all the city's (and thus the citadel's) former rulers: the Turks, Karamanlis, Spaniards, Knights of Malta, Italians and several others all left a piece of themselves in its arts and architecture.  The entrance to the Jamahiriya Museum is on Green Square, next to the castle. These excellent facilities were built in consultation with UNESCO at enormous cost, and the exhibits within are laid out chronologically, starting with prehistory and ending up with the revolution. The most impressive parts are the mosaics, statues and artefacts from classical antiquity, which make up one of the finest collections in the Mediterranean.  The medina is the heart of Tripoli, providing the most visually exciting and certainly the best shopping in the city, if not the whole country. As only a handful of tourists visit Libya, the souq has an authentic air and the goods on display cater to local taste. Even better news is that you'll find absolutely none of the hassle usually associated with a trip to a souq. When you've had your fill of the market scene, the old walled city also contains virtually all of Tripoli's historic mosques, khans (inns), hammams and houses. And to give the crowds an even wider berth, try visiting the city's peaceful zoo or any of the nearby beaches.  
africa_libya_environment.html:  Environment  In the middle of Mediterranean North Africa, Libya is surrounded by Chad and Niger to the south, Egypt and the Sudan to the east and Algeria and Tunisia to the west. A bit smaller than the US state of Alaska and more than three times the size of France, the country clocks in as the fourth largest country in Africa. Within its boundaries, Libya is divided into three main regions: Tripolitania covers the north-western corner of the country, the Fezzan everything south of Tripolitania, and Cyrenaica the entire eastern half. Each of these divisions is further subdivided by several large municipalities.  Only a narrow coastal strip receives enough rainfall to be suitable for agriculture, and it's here that you'll find the capital city, Tripoli, as well as 90% of the population. North-eastern Libya, the Jebel Akhdar area (also known as the Green Mountains), is the most verdant and arguably the most beautiful part of the country. Its interior, on the other hand, is largely uninhabited desert peppered with small oasis communities. In the extreme south are the Tibesti and Tassili mountains of the central Sahara, while the Calanscio Sand Sea, a vast area of shifting sand dunes, lies in the east near the Egyptian border. The Murzuk and Ubari sand seas lie in the west.  There are no permanent rivers in Libya, only wadis (watercourses), which catch the infrequent runoff from rainfall. The discovery of vast fossil aquifers in the south and south-east has prompted the building of a huge pipeline to bring water to the coastal areas for use in agriculture and industry. The Great Man-Made River project is among the largest, most expensive engineering schemes in history.  Inland, the only vegetation is largely confined to the oases, where the date palm reigns supreme, along with figs and oleander. Outside the oases, the acacia tree can sometimes be found providing the only shade in the middle of a wilderness. On the coast, the usual array of Mediterranean flora thrives, including large areas of olive and citrus cultivation.  A wonderful variety of bird life can be seen all over Libya, as it lies on the migratory route of many species. In the desert regions, the camel is the most common animal that visitors will come across, but there are still a few herds of gazelle in remote areas, and the nocturnal fennec (a small, big-eared fox) can be seen from time to time. Lizards, snakes (some of which are poisonous) and scorpions are also quite common.  Libya's climate is influenced by the massive expanse of desert to the south and by the Mediterranean Sea to the north. The coastal regions enjoy moderate temperatures, averaging 30 C (86 F) in summer and 8 C (46 F) in winter in Tripoli. Some 380mm (15in) of rain falls mainly in winter. Semi-arid conditions predominate in the central plains, while the southern deserts are subject to frequent periods of drought. A hot, dry, sand-laden wind called the ghibli occasionally blows into the usually humid coastal towns in spring and fall.  
africa_libya_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Everyone except visitors from most Arab and African countries and Malta must have a visa to visit Libya. Before applying for a visa, you must have your passport translated into Arabic. Visas are only issued to visitors travelling as part of an organised tour.Health risks: Small risk of malaria, diptheria, typhoid, rabies and hepatitisTime: GMT/UTC plus 2 hoursElectricity: 220-40VWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit Libya is between November and March, when daytime temperatures are relatively mellow...for a desert country. Conversely, if you drop by between April and October, don't be surprised to find the mercury pushing 38 C (100 F) on a regular basis. The coastal atmosphere is generally humid (hovering around 55% in the afternoons year round), while inland the deserts are often as dry as dust. You should avoid travel to Libya in late spring (May through June) and early fall (October), when the country's subject to the massive ghibli sandstorms from the south, which tend to last several days and interrupt all outdoor activities.     Events  The Islamic (or Hjira) calendar is a full 11 days shorter than the Gregorian (western) calendar, so public holidays and festivals fall 11 days earlier each year. In March in 2003 and February for the next few years, Ras as-Sana is the Islamic celebration of the new year. Also known as Eid al-Adha or the Great Feast, Tabaski commemorates the moment when Abraham was about to sacrifice his son in obedience to God's command, only to have God jump in at the last minute and substitute a ram instead. It's held each year in January. Eid al-Moulid, in May for the next few years, celebrates the prophet Mohammed's birthday, while Ramadan is celebrated during the ninth month of the Islamic calendar (in December in 2003-5), commemorating the month when the Quran was revealed to Mohammed. Out of deference, Muslims take neither food nor water until after sunset each day. The end of Ramadan, called Eid al-Fitr, comes around a month later. The fasting breaks amid much celebration.  The main secular holiday in Libya is Revolution Day, which is marked with a week of public parades, rallies and events in September. Folk troupes, horsemen, musicians and various military groups are bussed into Tripoli for the occasion, and Gaddafi usually gives a pep talk in Green Square. Slightly lower in key is the date-harvest festival held in various parts of the country during October.   Public HolidaysFebruary/March - Ras as-Sana, Tabaski2 March - Declaration of the People's Authority DayMay - Eid al-Moulid11 June - Evacuation Day1 September - Revolution Day26 October - Day of MourningDecember - Eid al-Fitrback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to LibyaTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
africa_libya_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  North of Benghazi is the Jebel Akhdar, an extremely beautiful stretch of mountains that are sure to resonate doubletime with anyone fresh out of the desert. Also known as the Green Mountains, this part of Libya is indeed green and a great deal wetter than other parts of the country. Geographically, it resembles Crete, and much of the high jebel (mountain) is given over to agriculture. It was a key area for food production during Italian colonisation, and the simple, low-built farmhouses from the 1930s still stand today amid fruit and cereal farms. The whole area has a charming, rustic feel to it.  The Greek city of Tocra, 70km northeast of Benghazi along the coastal road, was founded around 510 BC. The new village is pretty much devoid of interest to visitors, but the ancient Greek port and surrounding area are well worth a peek. Further east along the coast is Tolmeita, which is also home to Greek ruins and sports a couple of nice beaches to boot. Inland a bit and farther east, Al-Bayda is right at the heart of the jebel, close to the ancient sites of Cyrene, Apollonia, Gassr Libya and Slonta. It's a pleasant place, with a number of visitor facilities and lovely Italian-era buildings, and there are also a few great beaches within a short drive.  The tiny village of Slonta, inland from al-Bayda, is not too interesting in itself, but it is the site of the only significant pre-Islamic Libyan artefact yet discovered. The ruins were obviously a place of worship, but no one knows much about its particular cult. Closer to the coast, the ancient city of Apollonia is the most rewarding of Libya's Greek cities after Cyrene, with a small museum and a number of well-preserved relics and ruins. At the far end of the Jebel Akhdar area, the town of Derna is situated around the outlet of an extremely attractive wadi, the steep sides of which are filled with lush vegetation. The town itself is worth a stroll, especially the old quarter and the covered souq. And if the beaches aren't enough of a watery wonder for you, an hour's hike from town brings you to a waterfall (a rare sight indeed in Libya) that flows almost all year round.  
africa_madagascar_activities.html:  Activities  Madagascar has some outstanding diving and snorkelling locations, despite the environmental pressures on many of the reefs. The best opportunities are around the islands and islets surrounding Nosy Be. The tough roads are a challenge to cycling, and cyclists will need to bring sturdy mountain bikes and a generous reserve of spares. Whale-watching is growing in popularity, and two good places to indulge are Taolognar in southern Madagascar and the west coast of le Sainte Marie off the east coast. The hiking is excellent in many of the national parks, and opportunities for photography are, of course, unlimited.  
africa_madagascar_attractions.html:  Attractions  Tana is like many other Asian or African capitals: crowded, polluted and noisy, but it does have some spectacular parts that are worth exploring. The hub of the lower town is Araben ny Fahaleovantena (commonly known as Avenue de l'Independance). At one end is the railway station and at the other is H tel Glacier. This district is known as Analakely and is packed with permanent street markets, and swarms of off-white umbrellas, perched precariously on old tyre rims, shade the vendors.  To the south-west of Analakely is the Kianja ny Fahaleovantena (Place de l'Independance) in the area of Haute-Ville (Upper Town). That's where you'll find the main post office, several banks, restaurants and nightclubs. Uphill from there, narrow streets lead past churches and other former royal buildings to the ruins of the  Rova, the former Queen's palace. The Rova was burned to the ground in 1995, almost certainly in a politically motivated attack during local elections.  In north-eastern Tana, the Andravoahangy Market is where stonemasons, embroiderers, booksellers, carpenters and other professional craftspeople make and sell their wares. You will see them at work here, but don't let them distract you entirely with their skills and showmanship; thieves and pickpockets are often active in local markets.  The Parc Botanique et Zoologique de Tsimbazaza is worth visiting unless you have already been up country to visit the national parks. It has several species of lemurs (caged and uncaged) including the aye-aye, and other rare species such as egrets, herons, crocodiles and Aldabran and Malagasy tortoises. On the zoo grounds is the Musee d'Academie Malgache with some excellent natural and cultural exhibits, including the skeletal remains and preserved eggs of the extinct elephant bird, giant lemurs, a short-tailed white hippo and a dugong. In another room there are exhibits of Malagasy funerary art and tribal village life.  There's a wide choice of places to stay in central Tana, but not much value for money. The cheaper hotels are dirty and noisy and usually double as brothels, so if you don't want to pay the extra for safety and cleanliness, you should head out into the countryside. Tana doesn't have a great range of restaurants despite nearly 50 years of French rule, although many offer special menus du jour and plats du jour that are relatively cheap. Suburban Tana, and the area around the Zoma Market, are good for street stalls selling everything from yoghurt dishes and ice cream to meat samosas and other unidentifiable objects fried in batter. You'll also find hotelys of varying quality around the taxi-brousse stations just outside of the town centre, and you can usually get a passable meal at one of them.  
africa_madagascar_environment.html:  Environment  Madagascar is the fourth largest island in the world - after Greenland, New Guinea and Borneo - and is about the size of Spain and Portugal combined. It lies in the Indian Ocean, separated from Mozambique on the African mainland by the 400km (248mi) Mozambique Channel. Unlike its volcanic neighbours - Mauritius, Reunion, Rodrigues and the Comoros - Madagascar was formed by continental drift rather than volcanic eruption (it tore off the African mainland around 165 million years ago). A narrow coastal strip in the east is where most of the rainforest grows; the central plateau in the high altitudes is cool; and there are plains and low-lying plateaus to the west.  Madagascar is a continent in miniature, with vastly different habitats and, like many islands, a huge number of endemic (and some very weird) species. The international conservation community has singled it out as one of the ecologically richest countries on the planet; Madagascar and the nearby Comoros have nearly one-quarter of all the flowering plants in Africa. It also has 90% of the known species of lemurs, and half the world's chameleons are found there. Add baobab trees, unique cacti and aloes from the dry areas, and you start to build up a picture of an incredibly rich ecology.  Apart from its southern tip, Madagascar lies wholly within the tropics. The hauts plateaux, however, that run nearly the length of the island and form its backbone, are cool enough to grow apples and stone fruit, and even vineyards above 800m (2896ft). Snow is not uncommon in winter at the highest altitudes. Trade winds prevail from the east and the monsoons come from the north-west. Most of the rain hits the east coast and the far north, but in the rain shadow south-west of the highlands it remains almost perpetually dry. From January to March, the east coast, the far north and sometimes the far south are subject to occasionally devastating cyclones.  When humans arrived, they brought slash-and-burn agricultural techniques to clear the way, with barely 15% of the original forest cover remaining today. This has given way to severe soil erosion and descriptions of Madagascar as the Great Red Island. There is great pressure across its stunning bio-diversity as this traditionally poor country attempts to trade on something other than its natural resources. The answer may lie in recently improved agricultural techniques and the lucrative eco-tourism market which is beginning to catch on.  
africa_madagascar_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors must get a visa before arriving. Visas are valid for up to three months from the date of entry.Health risks: Malaria, bilharzia, hepatitis and diarrhoea.Time:GMT/UTC +3 hoursElectricity: 110 to 220V; assume 220V when in doubtWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  April to October (the southern winter) is the best time to go; you will miss the sticky southern summer (November to March), also known as hurricane season. But because Madagascar experiences wide climatic variation, the central highlands can still be pleasant during summer while the east coast gets most of its rain between June and September.     Events  Madagascar has a host of holidays and festivals to cover most tastes and agendas. The usual Christian holidays like Easter and Christmas are celebrated, as well as Insurrection Day (29 March, to celebrate the rebellion against the French in 1947); Organisation of African Unity Day (25 May); Anniversary Day (8 May) and Republic Day (30 December).  In March, Alahamady Be is the low key Malagasy New Year. The  Donia, a traditional music festival, is held on Nosy Be in May-June (the date varies);  Fisemana is a ritual purification ceremony that the Antakarana people undertake in June; and  Famadihana (the 'turning of the bones' burial ceremony) takes place from June to September.    
africa_madagascar_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Mahajanga is Madagascar's second port, and sits at the mouth of the Betsiboka River on the Baie de Bombetoka, on the north-west coast. It's very hot and dusty, and very lethargic, and as it's difficult to get to travellers often ignore it. It is a crumbling frontier town with wide promenades, interesting architecture, shady arcades and flowering bougainvillea - one explanation for the town's name is that it comes from the Swahili meaning 'Town of Flowers'. There are numerous churches and at least 20 mosques, and the town has Madagascar's largest Comoran Muslim community. The beaches around town are relatively safe, if stained blood red from the highland topsoil being washed out to sea.  Facing the Canal de Mozambique, Mahajanga is 400km (248mi) north-west of Tana. You can fly there from Tana, Nosy Be, and Antsiranana, and it is also a transit point for flights to remote west coast settlements. You can also make the trip by taxi-brousse from Tana, a 12-15 hour (much longer in the wet season) journey that is a vision of environmental catastrophe.  
africa_malawi_activities.html:  Activities  There's plenty to keep you active in Malawi. As you might expect in a country dominated by a lake, there are many water sports available. The lake's population of colourful fish and warm, generally clear water make for great scuba diving and snorkelling. Many of the more up-market places along the lake have facilities for water skiing and windsurfing. You can also go sailing - there are even luxurious 'sail safaris' where all you have to do is dangle your toes in the water.  Malawi has several national parks and game reserves where wild animals and birds can be seen from the comfort (and safety) of a vehicle, or from horseback or on foot. In addition to the parks and reserves, the Elephant Marsh is an excellent place for birding; it's a large area of seasonally flooded plain on the Shire River, about 60km (40mi) south of Blantyre.  There's fine hiking in Malawi. The main areas include the Nyika Plateau (in the north of the country) and Mt Mulanje (in the south). Rock climbing is very popular at Mt Mulanje.  
africa_malawi_attractions.html:  Attractions  Nearly created whole in the late 1960s and early 1970s to become the country's new capital in 1975, Lilongwe is a sprawling place with limited interest for travellers. This means there are an awful lot of awful modern administrative buildings in what's referred to variously as the New City or City Centre. This is the area where you'll find the ministries, embassies, airline offices, travel agents and a collection of office buildings and mini-malls called Capital City Shopping Centre.  Far more inspiring is Old Town, a few kilometres to the southwest, where you'll find the market, several restaurants and cafes, the bus station and a good range of accommodation. The heart of Old Town is the market, which is jammed with stalls selling everything from pots and pans, car and bike parts, empty plastic containers, fruit, vegetables, toothpaste, live chickens and dried fish. It's worth poking around even if you don't buy anything.  Situated between Old Town and New City is the Nature Sanctuary, which covers 150ha (370 acres) of indigenous woodland that escaped development. There's a wildlife information centre and several walking trails through the woods. The Lingadzi River flows through the reserve bearing crocodiles. Birders prize the sanctuary highly for its ornithological variety. There also several mammals roaming about, as well as a few hyenas, leopards and tigers in cages.  The public gallery at the tobacco auction floors at the vast Auction Holdings warehouse overlooks a space the size of several aircraft hangars, crammed with buyers, sellers and hundreds of bales of the weed displayed in long lines stretching across the floor. Groups of buyers move down the line talking rapidly to an auctioneer, snapping up a bale every six seconds. About 15,000 bales a day get moved in this fashion, making for an exhilarating scene. The sign on the wall of the main auction hall reads, 'Thank you for smoking.' The auction floors are located 7km (4mi) north of New Town and are reached most easily by car, although private tours and taxis can also get you there.  
africa_malawi_environment.html:  Environment  Malawi is a smallish, landlocked country wedged between Zambia, Tanzania and Mozambique. Roughly 900km (560mi) long and 150km (95mi) east to west at its widest point, Malawi is slightly larger than Bulgaria or Cuba. Most of its eastern border is formed by Lake Malawi (also called Lake Nyasa), the third-largest lake in Africa, which covers almost a fifth of Malawi's total area. The Great Rift Valley passes through Malawi, forming the trough in which Lake Malawi sits.  Malawi's main highland areas are the Nyika and Viphya Plateaux, and Mt Mulanje in the south. Malawi's highest point is the summit of Sapitwa (3000m/9840ft) at the centre of Mt Mulanje. The main river in the country is the Shire (pronounced 'Shir-ee'), which flows out of the southern end of Lake Malawi and eventually into the Zambezi River in Mozambique.  Malawi's vegetation includes Miombo woodland, found in wetter areas around 1500m (5000ft); lowland mopane, found in the middle Shire Valley and the southern shores of Lake Malawi; evergreen forest, scattered about the country; montane grassland, found in the rolling hills of the north; and the wetland areas of lakeshores and riverbanks. The country has many different kinds of indigenous wildflowers, due to the wide range of habitats. There are numerous varieties of proteas, aloes, gladioli and helichrysums (knows as 'everlastings'). Malawi is particularly famous for its orchids: more than 400 species have been recorded.  Vast animal herds of the popular easy-to-spot variety are lacking in Malawi, but there are plenty of large animals roaming about. Most are found in the country's national parks and game reserves. Liwonde, the main national park, is noted for its herds of elephant and antelope (including impala, bushbuck and kudu), and hippopotamus in the Shire River. Zebra, warthog, eland, jackal, leopard and hartebeest are more common in the north, especially in Nyika National Park. Malawi is famous for its fish - Lake Malawi has more species than any other inland body of water in the world, with a total over 500. The wet season runs from mid-October or early November to mid or late April; the dry season lasts from may to October or November. Average daily highs peak around 32 C (90 F) in October (although it can get a few degrees hotter in inland areas such as the Shire Valley); July is the coolest month, with daily highs around 21 C (70 F).  
africa_malawi_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Nearly all visitors need visas, good for up to three months, and proof of onward travel.Health risks: Heat stroke, hypothermia, dysentery, giardiasis, hepatitis A & B, typhoid, meninogococcal meningitis, cholera, malaria, rabies, diphtheria, tetanus, polioTime: GMT/UTC plus 2 hoursElectricity: 220/240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit Malawi overall is in the dry season, which lasts from late April to October or November. If you're coming to see game, the best time is late in the dry season, when animals converge at water holes and the heat can be unpleasant, especially in the lowlands. The landscape is much more attractive and conditions less oppressive from May to July, but there are fewer animals about. The early dry season is the best time for birdwatching; it's also exceedingly hot, exceptionally wet or both.     Events   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 16 January - John Chilembwe Day 3 March - Martyrs' Day Easter Holidays - Good Friday, Easter Monday 1 May - Labour Day 14 June - Freedom Day 6 July - Republic Day Second Monday in October - Mother's Day Second Monday in December - National Tree Planting Day 25 December - Christmas 26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to MalawiTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
africa_malawi_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The rolling hills of the Nyika Plateau, averaging about 2000m (6560ft) above sea level, are covered with a mix of mopane grassland and mimbo woodland. Other areas are covered in dense evergreen forests, and there are pockets of damp grassy bog. The park is famous for its wildflowers (including 120 species of orchid), which grow like mad after the rains (November to April), and attract a broad array of wildlife. Most common are the large roan antelope and the smaller reedbuck; you'll also see zebra, warthog, blue monkey (in the woodlands) and over 250 species of bird.  Many people see the park from a car. Although you're not allowed to enter the park on foot, once you're inside you can stroll as much as you like - though you'll have to be accompanied by a park ranger for hikes of more than a few kilometres. It's also possible to ride a horse across the grasslands, allowing you to get closer to the game than in a car or on foot.  The main entrance to the park is at the Thazima Gate, in the southwestern corner, which is connected by dirt road to the nearest town, Rumphi. Rumphi is a few kilometres from the main north-south highway, and about 55km (35mi) north of Mzuzu. The easiest way to get there is by car, but there's a daily bus between Mzuzu and Chitipa that runs through the park.  
africa_mali_activities.html:  Activities  One of the best things you can do in Mali is take a hiking trek along the Bandiagara Escarpment. Depending on your time, budget, and level of fitness you can do anything from a one-day to an eight-day trek along the cliff face. Guides are not essential but will make the going easier as they can negotiate prices for staying overnight in the villages and point out the right tracks to follow. A river trip down the Niger is also a must. Again the extent of the trip is entirely flexible and can last as long as the river, or as short as the time it takes you to get hot and bothered over the less-than-luxurious conditions.   Taking a camel ride out to the Tuareg camps in Timbuktu might be a bit of a cliche and cause involuntary humming of the theme song from Lawrence of Arabia, but if you've arrived in Timbuktu by boat or plane it will give you a taste of desert life. You might add a bit of spice to the excursion by staying overnight in a Tuareg camp and experiencing the desert by moonlight. Staying overnight is officially illegal for security reasons but can be achieved with a bit of discretion.  
africa_mali_attractions.html:  Attractions  You'd expect the capital city of one of the poorest countries in the world to be sullen and down-at-heel but Bamako is a brash cacophony of music, motorbikes, and people buying, selling and trading under the hot midday sun. Despite its problems it's got chutzpah.   Unfortunately the colonial-style Grand Marche Market burnt down in 1993. It's due to be rebuilt but until it is the stall holders are simply conducting business alfresco on the pavements and side streets around the old site. This greatly increases the chances of getting lost as all the streets begin to look the same but you can find everything here from indigo cloth to gold to tapes of African music. There's also a traditional medicine vendor should you find yourself running short of travel essentials such as porcupine quills, dried birds and monkey heads.   The Musee National is one of the best ethnographic museums in West Africa with architectural features inspired by the old-mud brick structures in Djennee and a wide range of tapestries, masks, funeral objects, and weapons. The museum is desperately trying to hold onto its cultural treasures but is fighting an uphill battle against collectors illegally buying ancient terracotta figurines in Djennee for next to nothing. Don't buy into this cultural devaluation: save your francs for the legal stuff.   Bamako is on the north bank of the Niger. The core city centre, where you'll find the main markets, shops, restaurants, and some hotels, is the triangle formed by Ave du Fleuve, Blvd du Peuple and Ave van Vollenhoven. The Grand Marche (or what used to be the Grand Marche before it burnt down) is in the centre of this triangle.  
africa_mali_environment.html:  Environment  At nearly twice the size of France the landlocked republic of Mali is one of the largest West African countries but has fewer people per square mile than any other. It's shaped like a bow tie after a long night - twisted to a 45 angle and with the left side smaller than the right. It's hemmed in by Niger, Burkina Faso, C te d'Ivoire and Liberia on its eastern edge; Guinea and Senegal to the south; Mauritania to the west; and Algeria to the north. The northern region of Mali is nearly all Saharan desert and a whopping chunk of the middle is a belt of arid semi-desert, the Sahel. Mali's major geographical feature is the Niger River, which runs right up to the edge of the Sahara before turning right and heading back to the ocean. In the upper southern region the Niger and Bani rivers join to form a rich inland delta but it is only in the lower southern regions where rainfall is reliable that the dryness gives way to small pockets of natural forest.   Climate and environment are working overtime to bury Mali under a tonne of sand and 65% of the country is now desert or semi-desert. The rapid desertification of Mali is due to on-going droughts, over-grazing, topsoil erosion, harsh desert winds, and the scavenging of trees for firewood. It's hardly surprising, therefore, that Mali is almost totally without lush forests or abundant wildlife. In fact, Baoule National Park, 130km (80mi) northwest of Bamako, is about the only bit of green you'll see in the country, and the few lions, giraffes, buffalo and hippo that are there are all a bit lonely.   Although it cools down a little toward the end of the year the temperature in Mali, particularly in the north, is either hot or hotter than hell, often reaching temperatures above 40 C (104 F). The humid rainy season is June to September although this really only applies to the south. In the Sahel rain can be variable, and in the north it's scarcer than hens' teeth. Dusty Harmattan winds blowing off the desert between December and February covers the sandy cities with a fine layer of dust.  
africa_mali_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas:Visas are required for all except French nationals and usually cost around US$15Health risks:A yellow fever vaccination certificate is required, and one for cholera is strongly advised. Malaria precautions should be taken.Time:GMT/UTCElectricity:220 volts, 50HzWeights & measures:Metric When to Go  The very best time to visit Mali is November, before the heat hits in March and after the wet humid season. Trips down the Niger are also a good bet in November as the river is usually high enough for passenger boats to get through. By December and January water levels are iffy and boat trips may be more of a hop from one sandbank to another if not cancelled altogether. November, though, is also the high tourist season so if you prefer to sacrifice a bit of comfort for peace and quiet, you could go in December for the crossing of the cattle at Diafarabe. In fact anytime from October through to February is a reasonable time to go, but trying to get around Mali in the hot season from March to May is strictly for masochists.     Events  The most captivating event on the Mali calendar is the crossing of the cattle at Diafarabe. Every year during December, in a tradition that goes back 160 years, Diafarabe gears up to cope with a sudden influx of cattle and herders as they converge on the river bank. It's a time for celebrations and festivities as herders are reunited with friends and family after several long months in the desert. Local chiefs and elders meet before the big event and the order of the crossing is decided by the processes of fair play and democracy. The cattle are then led to the grass that is (both proverbially and literally) always greener on the other side.   The Dogons are famous for their masks and during the five-day F te des Masques in April many of them are used in ritual ceremonies that go back more than 1000 years. The most famous of these ceremonies is the Sigui, which only occurs once every 60 years, and is probably connected to the Dogon agrarian calendar. This calendar has an eerie Twilight Zone mystique to it: it's thought to be based on the orbital cycles of a white dwarf star that is invisible to the naked eye. It was only discovered in the 1960s by a high powered telescope, despite the fact that the Dogons had been using the star as a seasonal marker for more than a millennium.    
africa_mali_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Djenne is often missed by travellers because it lies off the main route between Bamako and Mopti but is well worth the visit. It lies on the Niger River delta and is particularly picturesque in the rainy season when it turns into an island surrounded by water. It claims to be the oldest city in West Africa and it appears that little has changed in centuries. Djenne has elevated the childish pastime of mud-pie making to an art form; they've built an entire town from the stuff. The mud houses with their thatched roofs and wooden window shutters and doors decorated with paint and metal objects give the town its other-wordly charm.   The much-photographed Djenne Mosque intensifies this air of strangeness. Built entirely out of mud, complete with turret-like projections, it rises from the desert floor like an over-acheiver's sandcastle. It is, not unnaturally, the largest mud structure in the world and is one of the finest examples of Sudanese architecture. The only drawback is that it tends to melt in the rain and major mud-pie sessions are required after the rainy season to keep it from disintegrating. Unfortunately, non-Muslim visitors were banned from the interior after a fashion photographer and a horde of models ran amok in its interior but you can still get an excellent view of the outer walls from the roof of the Petit Marche opposite the mosque.   Djenne is about 400km (248mi) from Bamako and can be reached by bus or pinasse (large motorised canoe).  
africa_mauritania_activities.html:  Activities  Mauritania isn't a good hiking destination, has no organised sports to speak of and isn't a great country to cycle in. Coastal reefs make some of the coast attractive to gung-ho surfing fanatics, but even some of the most popular beaches are crime havens - swim with your money and passport or leave it in a hotel safe. Bird watchers are the luckiest travellers; the 200km (124mi) Arguin Bank is arguably the best spot on the planet to indulge ornothological passions.  
africa_mauritania_attractions.html:  Attractions  Created from a grassy fertile plain in 1960, Nouakchott is one of the newest capital cities in the world. When Senegal and Mauritania split at independence, Mauritania was left without a capital. The site chosen was many days walk from the desert, but is now entirely surrounded by the Sahara, with sand piling up against walls and fences like snow drifts. The city lost some of its energy (already in short supply) following the riots in 1989, but the two markets are lively and the beach good for swimming and jogging (and, some say, mugging). Although designed for 200,000 inhabitants, Nouakchott has about five times that population already; the outer areas are little more than slums of metal shacks and tents.  As a useful and interesting introduction to the lifestyle and culture of the nomads of Mauritania - to the complete exclusion of the Black population - visit the well-organised National Museum in the heart of Nouakchott. Just out of town at Port de P che visitors can watch the fishermen go about their business. It's a beautiful area, and the workers - mostly Wolof and Pulaar people - don't mind being photographed, and will talk about their work if asked. Women can be observed going about their work hand-knotting rugs at the National Carpet Office. Nouakchott has finally opened its arms to the cyber-age and the two Internet cafes in the city are the only places in Mauritania you can get online.  
africa_mauritania_environment.html:  Environment  With a 700 km (435 mi) Atlantic coastline, Mauritania takes up a slab of Western Africa some 1,030,400 sq km (402,000 sq mi) in size, about the same size as the US state of New Mexico or twice the size of France. Sharing borders with Morocco, Algeria, Mali and Senegal, Mauritania is about 60% desert - a figure that increases relentlessly as the Saharan sand spreads south-westward towards the sea. The further south you travel, the less intense the desert conditions are, giving way to scrubland and savannah. On the southwest boundary of the Senegal River there is a 400 km (250 mi) strip of fertile land where most of Mauritania's food crops are produced.  In the flood plains of the Senegal River, the new Diawling National Park is managing to attract birds - including endangered species. This influx adds to the already impressive birdlife found along the Atlantic coast. On the ground, however, the encroaching sands have sent animals as well as people packing; all that remains as far as animal life goes are a handfull of gazelle and the occasional bustard.  There is no rainy season, just hot-and-dry and hotter-and-dry. Rainfall is almost totally absent in the Sahara region. From June to August, temperatures average about 40 C (104 F), although along the coast, breezes keep the temperatures down a little. Weather between December and March in the capital Nouakchott is nearly perfect, with maximums averaging 29 C (85 F) and overnight lows of 13 C (55 F). Many places can register temperatures below freezing at any time of the year, so pack warm gear.  
africa_mauritania_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Only visitors from Arab League countries, France, Italy and certain African nations don't require a visa. Visas of beween one and three months are required by everyone else.Health risks: A yellow fever vaccination is mandatory for anyone coming from an infected area. Water should be boiled or purified before drinking.Time: GMT/UTCElectricity: 220VWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  With little else going on for the traveller in Mauritania, weather is as good a guide as any for influencing the timing of your visit. The most tolerable weather occurs between November and February, when it's hot and sunny during the day, but cooling off in the evenings with southerlies blowing in from the desert. From June to October it's very hot all the time, but bearable for brief visits. Never go between March and May unless a constant blast of sand and hot wind is high on your list of priorities.     Events  Aside from Muslim celebrations, and in particular the feasting of Tabaski (Eid-al-Kabir), Mauritania is not the best destination if you're looking for flamboyant, joyous displays of culture. Independence is marked on 28 November.    
africa_mauritania_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If you're exceptionally adventurous and want to see a ghost town in the making, head east to the isolated ancient town of Tichit, 865km (520mi) due east of the capital. It lies in the centre of a massive fault of rock streching almost to the Malian border. As a supply town it once boasted over 5000 people, but you'd be lucky to find 500 now. Visitors are rewarded with beautiful, decorative mosques - the most ornate in Mauritania. On the way, the landscape is a deadly mix of twisted shrubs, bleached bones, bare trees and - yes - sand. Never travel to Tichit without a guide, and check in with the police when you arrive. Believe us, they'll be surprised to see you.  
africa_mauritius_activities.html:  Activities  Many hotels provide windsurfing and kayaking equipment for their guests, and for those who prefer less strenuous communing, there's usually a glass-bottom boat to be found. For Jules Verne fans, lead-booted, bubble-headed 'undersea walks' can be arranged near Grand Baie reef, as can a ride on La Nessee, a semi-submersible boat - sort of like a submarine - that allows a close-up tour of the reefs without the nuisance of getting wet.   Surfing was big on the island in the 1970s, until the rising costs of airfare and accommodation drove surfers to seek bluer pastures. Now, with vacation costs back to bearable, the crowds are picking up again. The area around Tamarin is said to be the best spot to drop in, and the season lasts from around June to August. Diving around the island is not especially interesting, save for off the outer isle of Cargados Carajos, but there are no dive operators there. On Mauritius, the best dive sites are around Flic en Flac on the west coast. Snorkelling is a better proposition, with over-the-side boat trips running from most major hotels and from Grand Baie beach. The best swimming beaches are all at the northern end of the island.  Serious anglers will love the superb deep-sea fishing in the waters off Mauritius, where there are healthy populations of blue and black marlin, bonita and yellowfin tuna, several species of shark and spectacular sailfish to hook into. Overall, October through April is the best time to sink a line, though there are fish to be caught year round and the wahoo don't start biting until September.  Though Mauritius is promoted primarily as a 'beach' destination, the attractions of hiking and trekking through the interior are legion. For lowland walking, take into account the heat and humidity. For highland treks, come prepared for rain at any time of year, especially from October to March. The Reserve Forrestiere Macchabee and Black River Gorges National Park provide the bulk of the wild walks on the island, though there are some fantastic short-but-strenuous hikes in the hills around Moka Town. Curepipe, atop the plateau, is the best place for trekkers to stock up before a trip. Caving aficionados will want to visit Caverne Patate on Rodrigue  
africa_mauritius_attractions.html:  Attractions  Backed by mountains at the north-western end of the island, the burgeoning capital of Port Louis is a large city (in proportion to the size of Mauritius), though it contains a relatively small percentage of the country's total population. During the day, it bustles with big-city commercial activity - snarling traffic, honking horns and all. By night, in contrast, all is quiet - dare we say 'dead'? - except for the swish new Le Caudan Waterfront, where you'll find a casino, cinemas, shops, bars and restaurants. There's a distinct Muslim area around Muammar El Khadafi Square (appropriately enough at the opposite end of the city from the local hat-tip to the Yanks, John F Kennedy St) and a Chinatown around Royal St. The city centre is easily covered on foot.  A good place to get a feel for city life is the Port Louis Market, near the water in the heart of downtown. With sections devoted to fruits and vegetables, meats and fish, souvenirs, crafts, clothing and spices, be ready to practise some hard bargaining. While in the neighbourhood, most visitors drop by the Natural History Museum to see a stuffed replica of that 'abnormal member of a group of pigeons', the dodo, which has been extinct since the late 17th century. The museum also houses stuffed representations of several other extinct birds as well as specimens of animals and fish that are still with us. The only other regular exhibitor in the city is the Mauritius Postal Museum, featuring a collection of Mauritian stamps and assorted philately.  If you're interested in Islamic architecture, stop by Port Louis' oddly located Jummah Mosque, built in the 1850s in the middle of Chinatown, and Fort Adelaide, which so closely resembles a Moorish fortress that locals call it the Citadel. Fort Adelaide is the only one of Port Louis' four British forts that's still accessible and not in ruins; the views from its hilltop, harbourside location are ace.  The Lourdes of the Indian Ocean, Pere Laval's Shrine is just north-east of the town centre at Ste-Croix. Pere Laval - who is said to have converted more than 67,000 people during his 23 years on Mauritius - is remembered with a colourful plaster statue atop his tomb. Pilgrims swear by the statue's healing powers and come in droves to touch it.  
africa_mauritius_environment.html:  Environment  Mauritius is a volcanic island, measuring 58km (36mi) from north to south and 47km (29mi) from east to west - about two-thirds the size of Luxembourg or the US state of Rhode Island. It lies in the Indian Ocean, roughly 800km (500mi) east of Madagascar, 3860km (2400mi) south-west of India and 220km (135mi) north-east of its nearest neighbour, Reunion. With about 600 people per square kilometre, Mauritius has one of the highest population densities in the world. As a country, it includes the inhabited island of Rodrigues, some 560km (350mi) to the north-east, and other scattered coral atolls such as Cargados Carajos and Agalega.  The island rises steeply in the south to a central plateau and slopes gently down to the northern coast beyond the mountains that back the capital, Port Louis. Unlike neighbouring Reunion, Mauritius has no active volcanoes, although remnants of volcanic activity - such as Trou aux Cerfs crater in Curepipe and millions of lava boulders - pepper the island. Mauritius is surrounded by a coral reef and lined by a few long stretches of white sand beach. The reef is broken in several places, with the largest break evident in the pounding surf along the black cliffs between Souillac and Le Bouchon on the southern coast. A smaller, less spectacular break occurs at Flic en Flac on the west coast.  The last decade has seen Mauritian conservationists scrambling to protect the paltry 1% of original forest remaining on the island. The largest nature reserve is the Black River Gorges National Park at the south-western end of the island. Other reserves include Le Pouce, le Ronde, le aux Serpents, le aux Aigrettes and Bois Sec. Visitor access is (or will be) restricted at many reserves, as most are tiny in size and enclose the last vestiges of rare species.  There's not much to mention in the way of Mauritian wildlife. You're likely to bump into a mongoose or two during your stay and perhaps the odd Java deer, but without heading deep into the interior, the ubiquitous 'domestic' guard dog is about all you'll see. Inland, look for wild pigs and bands of macaque monkeys. Conversely, Mauritius' trees and skies are rich with birdlife, although many of the most spectacular species are following in the footsteps of the island's most famous one-time resident, the dodo. On the endangered species list are the Mauritius kestrel (once the rarest bird on earth), the echo parakeet (still the rarest of that species) and the pink pigeon. Sadly, the 'threatened' list goes on from there. The predominant species on the island are introduced songbirds, such as the little red Madagascar fody, the jive talking Indian mynah and - most common of all - the red-whiskered bulbul. Beneath the waves, the tally improves. The abundant marine life found in Mauritian waters includes corals, mollusks, turtles, dolphins, four types of whale and innumerable fish. Of the island's 900 plant species, almost a third are endemic to Mauritius. Some of the most common examples are giant Indian banyans, beach-hugging casuarinas and brilliant red-flowering flamboyants.  The Mauritian climate is a mixed affair. Atop the plateau, Curepipe's temperatures average a few degrees cooler than those on the coast; it's also common to find rain in Curepipe while the beaches enjoy blue skies and vice versa. Similarly, east coast weather differs from that of the west coast - the former being much drier during January and February, when prevailing winds drive in from the east, race up the mountains and dump rain on central and western Mauritius. There is no monsoon season, though cyclones hit the island every 15 years or so between November and May. During these months, there are usually a few days of heavy rains that keep everybody cooped up indoors. Light rains fall year round. The highest average daytime temperatures occur from January to April and top out around 35 C (95 F). The coolest period is from July to September, when temperatures average 24 C (75 F) during the day and 16 C (60 F) at night. Humidity is generally highest between October and June.  
africa_mauritius_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors are required to have a passport and onward ticket in order to get a visa. Renewable one-month visas may be granted on arrival, although it may be better to contact a Mauritian embassy prior to your visit.Health risks: Slight risk of malaria; proof of yellow fever vaccination is required of those entering Mauritius from an infected area.Time: GMT/UTC plus four hoursElectricity:220V or 125V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Apart from the busy Christmas to New Year period, Mauritius doesn't really have a high or low season. The depths of Mauritian 'winter' occur from July to September, when daytime temperatures drop from sticky to balmy. With less rain and humidity, this is one of the choicest times to visit. Weatherwise, the least agreeable period is from January to April, when the long days can prove too hot and humid for some and the threat of cyclones is in the air. Visitors should be prepared to spend several days cooped up indoors during extra-heavy rains. December through March is the best time for diving, when the waters are at their clearest; June through August is best for surfing; and October through April is excellent for big game fishing, when the large predators feed close to shore.     Events  With its host of cultures and multinational residents, it's no surprise that Mauritius celebrates an equally diverse number of holidays and special events. Teemeedee, a Hindu and Tamil fire-walking ceremony held in honour of various gods, takes place throughout the year but mostly in December and January. Hindus celebrate the major Thaipoosam Cavadee in January or February at temples throughout the island. Look for processions carrying flower-covered wooden arches and pots of milk, with devotees skewering their tongues and cheeks in homage to the second son of Lord Shiva. Around the same time, the resident Tamils mark the end of the harvest season by feeding rice pudding to decorated cows in the festival of Pongal, and Chinese New Year is celebrated with the standard barrage of fireworks and foodstuffs.   Maha Shivaratri occurs over three days in February and March and is the largest and most important Hindu festival outside of India. Most of the island's Hindu population makes a pilgrimage in honour of Lord Shiva to the holy volcanic lake Grand Bassin, where they make food sacrifices and stockpile vessels of the holy water. If you happen upon a celebration of Holi, the Hindu festival of colours, count on a good soaking: exuberant celebrants throw cupfuls of coloured powder and water on anyone in their path sometime in February or March. Independence/Republic Day is 12 March. Similar in intent to the teemeedee celebrations, Hindu and Tamil sword-climbing spectacles take place mostly between April and June. Pere Laval Feast Day in September marks the anniversary of the Catholic convert-king's death, and pilgrims come from all over the world to his shrine at Ste-Croix to pray for miracle cures and such.  Muslims celebrate Eid-al-Fitr to mark the end of the fasting month of Ramadan, which is the ninth month of the lunar year. Though the date of Eid-al-Fitr varies from year to year - for the next few years, it's in January and is always a public holiday.    
africa_mauritius_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This beautiful highland area south-west of Curepipe is like no other part of the island. About 6km (4mi) from Curepipe, Mauritius' only mountain road reaches the dam wall of the park's large reservoir, Mare aux Vacoas. Surrounded by casuarina and coniferous trees, it looks more like North America than an island in the Indian Ocean. About 6km (4mi) south-east of Mare aux Vacoas is the sacred lake of the Hindus, Grand Bassin, and, a few kilometres farther east, Plaine Champagne, the rainiest spot and largest natural area on Mauritius. Toward the eastern end of the plain, the Riviere Noire overlook affords spectacular views of waterfalls and the 830m (2720ft) Piton de la Petite Riviere Noire, the highest point on Mauritius.  The best time to visit Black River Gorges National Park is during the flowering season between September and January. Look for the rare tambalacoque or dodo tree, black ebony trees and the exotic birds that perch in them. You may also run into a band of monkeys, deer or wild pigs. The park is some 30km (19mi) south of Port Louis and is best reached by bus via Curepipe or by private transport.  
africa_morocco_activities.html:  Activities  There are loads of trekking possibilities in Morocco, one of the most popular being the two-day hike up Jebel Toubkal in the High Atlas mountains. Longer treks include the beautiful trail between Tacheddirt and Imlil, which takes you above the High Atlas snow line. While you're up there, you could consider a spot of skiing. Oukaimeden, about 70km from Marrakesh, is a favourite ski station. Lower altitude outdoor fun includes white-water rafting around the High Atlas, and surf fishing in the south. The winds off the coast of Essaouira are good for surfing, and fantastic for windsurfing. In fact, this spot is often singled out as the place to windsurf.  
africa_morocco_attractions.html:  Attractions  The fourth of the imperial cities, Rabat is a curious mix of a long past and a highly modernised present. The city's glory days were in the 12th century, when the then sultan used the kasbah (citadel) as a base for campaigns against the Spanish. It was during this time that the city's most famous landmarks sprang up. A haven for Muslims driven out of Spain in the early 17th century and a capital city only since the days of French occupation, Rabat's ambience comes from Islam and Europe in fairly equal proportions. For every place of worship there are three or four European-style cafes. Few of Rabat's residents are involved in the tourist racket, which means you can stroll through the markets without having to brace yourself against too much high-pressure salesmanship.  The city's most famous site is the Tour Hassan, the incomplete minaret of the great mosque begun by Yacoub al-Mansour. An earthquake brought construction to a halt in 1755. Alongside is the Mausoleum of Mohammed V, the present king's father. The Kasbah des Oudaias, built on the bluff overlooking the Atlantic Ocean, houses a former palace which is now a museum of traditional art. Beyond the city walls are the remains of the ancient city of Sala. Also known as Chella, it has Morocco's best Archaeology Museum.  Between the city's landmark central park ( Jardins Triangle de Vue) and the main train station, you'll find most of Rabat's hotels and eating spots. The most obvious cluster of cafes and bars here offer up all the beer, kababs, pizza, olives and ice cream you might need. The Mohammed V international airport is a short ride east of the city and there are plenty of shuttle buses.  
africa_morocco_environment.html:  Environment  Spectacularly diverse, Morocco combines sand, sea and snow in a way that Club Med developers could only dream about. The southern coast stretches to the edge of the Western Sahara while to the north the bulk of Morocco's population fills the foothills of the often snow-capped Atlas Mountains. The mountains provide a buffer against the country's dangerously rowdy eastern neighbour, Algeria.  Between the mountains and Morocco's Atlantic coast are plateaus and plains which are fertile and well-watered. In the extreme south, at the edge of the Anti-Atlas, the gorges, like the rivers that flow at their bases, gradually peter out into the endless sand and stony wastes of the vast Sahara.  The 'coolest of the hottest countries', Morocco's colder months are most un-African. In the higher regions in particular, winter conditions can be positively Arctic. In summer, the mountains are hot during the day and cool at night. The rainy season between November and April is something of a misnomer, bringing only occasional light rain.  
africa_morocco_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors require a passport. Citizens of the UK, EU, US, Australia and New Zealand do not need visas. Three-month visitor's stamps can be extended by Immigration or Bureau des Etrangers in most large towns.Health risks: Malaria lurks in the northern coastal reaches of Morocco, but generally the country is one of Africa's least daunting healthwise. Medical treatment, however, can be very expensive.Time: GMT/UTCElectricity: 220V, 50Hz (110V in some older places)Weights & measures: Metric When to Go  On the coast the weather is tourist-friendly pretty much all year round, although winter can bring cool and wet conditions in the north. In the lowlands, the cooler months from October to April are popular among visitors. This time of year is pleasantly warm to hot (around 30 C) during the day and cool to cold (around 15 C) at night. Winter in the higher regions demands some serious insulation. If you're heading into the hills, the ski season usually lasts from December to March. For most trekking trips you should book in the high season (June 15 to September 15) or you may find areas full.     Events  This is one of those religious frontiers where orthodoxy and local custom have met and compromised. The veneration of saints is frowned on by the orthodox Sunni Muslims but Islam, like Christianity, is made up of many sects and such festivals continue. It's worth asking around for details of festival dates because many don't take place at any fixed time in the western calendar.  Around May there's the Mousseum of Sidi Mohammed M'a al-Anim, an occasion to see the 'blue people' (Moors of the Sahara) and the commercial gathering of tribes. The National Folklore Festival of Marrakesh is a 10-day tourist event well worth attending for the dancers, musicians and other entertainers from around the country. In October, the little Northern town of Erfoud hosts a festival in honour of the quintessential desert fruit, the date. Independence Day, one of five national secular holidays, is celebrated on 18 November.    
africa_morocco_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Near the High Atlas town of Tinerhir, at the end of a lush valley of palms and mud-brick villages hemmed in by barren craggy mountains is one of Morocco's most glorious natural sights. This is the Todra Gorge: some 300m high but only 10m wide at its narrowest point, and with a crystal clear river running through it.  Although the main gorge can be explored in half a day, those with more time should head further up the gorge towards Tinerhir. There are numerous kasbahs and the people here are very friendly. Rock climbing is becoming increasingly popular on the vertical rock face of the gorge and camping around the base is also an attractive option.  There are plenty of hotels in and around the gorge itself. For the more adventurous, a network of difficult pistes links the sporadic villages here in the High and Middle Atlas mountains. Regular buses pass through Tinerhir en route between Marrakesh and Er-Rachidia.  
africa_mozambique_activities.html:  Activities  Mozambique has great potential for anybody keen on wild animals or hiking (or both), but, tragically, the presence of nearly a million land mines in national parks and mountain areas (and throughout much of the country) means these activities aren't yet available.  The safest bet is diving or snorkelling, and the best places to go down are the beaches at Wimbi, in the north, or Tofu and Barra or the Bazaruto Archipelago, which has great reefs. Birdwatching is popular in Mozambique, especially in the southern part of the country. The Maputo Elephant reserve, located on the ocean, is a good spot for birdspotting.  
africa_mozambique_attractions.html:  Attractions  Located near the very southern tip of the country, Maputo was once renowned as a beautiful city and rated by world travellers alongside Cape Town and Rio. But after almost 20 years of war and deprivation the capital is very rundown today, with crumbling buildings and dirty streets. Nevertheless, it's still an interesting place, with a very lively atmosphere. And the place slowly but surely improves. Old-timers say Maputo is already regaining some of its old charm.  The oldest historic site is the fort, where you can patrol the ramparts, look at the old cannons or just sit and rest in the grassy courtyard. A must-see is the train station, designed and built in the early 1900s by the same Eiffel who gave us the famous tower. Recently renovated, it looks more like a palace, with polished wood and marble decorations, topped by a gigantic copper dome.  Other highlights include the Botanic Gardens; the National Art Museum, which has a fine collection of Mozambique's best contemporary artists; and the lively Municipal Market, where fruit, vegetables, spices and basketwork are sold.  
africa_mozambique_environment.html:  Environment  Shaped a bit like an upside-down Afghan hound, Mozambique stretches for 2500km (1550mi) on the south-eastern coast of Africa, bordered by Tanzania to the north, Malawi and Zambia to the north-west, Zimbabwe to the west, and South Africa and Swaziland to the south-west. The island of Madagascar lies directly east, 400km (250mi) across the Mozambique Channel.  The coastal plain, as wide as 200km (125mi) in the south, rises to mountains and plateaux in the north and west. Two of Southern Africa's longest rivers, the Zambezi and the Limpopo, flow through the country. Other major rivers are the Save and the Rovuma (which forms the northern border with Tanzania). Massive Lake Malawi (also called Lake Nyasa) forms part of the border with Malawi.  As you go westward, the land changes abruptly from a narrow, palm-studded strip of beach along the coast to a broad belt of savannah and woodland, then forested mountains. Trees include hardwoods, acacia and papaya. Fauna include the rare, endangered black rhinoceros.  There are many regional variations in Mozambique, but generally the dry season runs from April to September, when the average daily high tops out at 27 C (80 F) on the coast, cooler inland. The rainy season lasts most of the rest of the year, when the average daily high hits 31 C (88 F).  
africa_mozambique_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors need visas, which are good for up to three months, and proof of onward travel.Health risks: Bilharzia, hepatitis A & B, typhoid, diptheria, tetanus, meninogococcal meningitis, polio, malariaTime: GMT/UTC plus 2 hoursElectricity: 220/240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit is the months of June to August, when both rainfall and temperatures are at their lowest. Later in the dry season, in late August and September, the temperatures start to climb, but this is the best time to see big game. The best time for birdwatching, on the other hand, is smack in the middle of the rainy season, usually November and December.     Events   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 3 February - Heroes' Day 7 April - Women's Day 1 May - Workers' Day 25 June - Independence Day 7 September - Victory Day 25 September - Revolution Day 25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to MozambiqueTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
africa_mozambique_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Located about 10km (6mi) off the coast, the Archipelago is one of the most beautiful places on the continent, complete with azure waters, sandy beaches, palm trees, pristine coral reefs, plus tropical fish to goggle at and big game fish to catch. The whole area between the mainland and the 150 fathom mark is now protected as a world-class conservation area. If you stay at one of the posh lodges, transfer by speedboat is available for around US$100 return. Rather cheaper are dhows, which can be got at Vilankulo on the mainland.  
africa_nairobi_activities.html:  Activities  Pretty well the main activity you'll be doing in Nairobi itself is running - from the touts trying to sell you a safari. Already got two safaris booked? Surely you should do a third (or cancel those two and do a better one)? That said, Nairobi is an excellent place to organise a safari (but choose carefully!) or a trek up Mt Kenya. Gaining popularity is white-water rafting on the Athi/Galana River. Otherwise, what the hell are you doing in Nairobi?  
africa_nairobi_attractions.html:  Attractions  The National Museum of the country, often touted as the birthplace of humanity, is a great place to start exploring the Kenyans' cultural riches. It has exhibits on the material culture of the various Kenyan tribes. It also houses displays of rock art, fossils, the origins of humans and a bird gallery of 900 stuffed and mounted specimens. One of the major exhibits on show is the Peoples of Kenya portraits by Joy Adamson of Born Free fame. Opposite the museum is the interesting Snake Park, where the exhibits are of a decidedly more living nature. The museum is a leisurely 1km (0.6mi) stroll northwest of the city centre just across the Nairobi River.  
africa_nairobi_facts.html:  When to Go  The best times to visit are during January and February and between June and October, when the weather is drier in and around Nairobi. Because Nairobi is located at the edge of the highlands, temperatures are cooler here compared with much of the rest of the country.     Events  The Nairobi agricultural show is held in the first week of October and is attended by local tribes people. Apart from this, there are celebrations during national holidays that include: Madaraka Day (1 June), which celebrates self government, Kenyatta Day (20 October) and Independence Day (12 December).    
africa_nairobi_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This is the beautiful farmhouse where Karen Blixen, author of Out of Africa, lived between 1914 and 1931, until she left Kenya after a series of personal tragedies. Nearby are the Ngong Hills, where many white settlers set up farms and built their houses. Passing by this area, you can be excused for imagining you are in the Home Counties of England, which along with the cooler temperatures goes a long way to explain why the Eureopeans settled here in such numbers. Though the hills offer some excellent walks, you should only do one with an organised tour or an armed escort, due to the risk of being mugged. The Karen Blixen Museum is a 40-minute bus ride southwest of town.  
africa_namibia_activities.html:  Activities  Most people come to Namibia to go to the game parks and wildlife reserves to view African animals in their habitat. The wide-open areas and variable landscapes present great opportunities for walking and hiking. Permits to do multi-day walks at the Waterberg Plateau, Naukluft Mountains, the Ugab River and the Fish River Canyon are strictly limited and you should book as far in advance as possible; you'll need a party of at least three and a Windhoek doctor's certificate stating that you're fit and able. Within the parks and reserves travellers enjoy camping and the great outdoors. There are opportunities to go river rafting and canoeing along some of the mighty inland waterways, including the Orange River. Horse riding is popular and multi-day horse treks are offered from various places.  
africa_namibia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Namibia's Central Highlands are dominated by its small, Germanic capital, Windhoek. Set at the geographical heart of Namibia, it serves as the nerve centre of the country's business and commercial operations and boasts Namibia's international airport. Situated among low hills at an elevation of 1660m (5444ft), Windhoek enjoys a refreshing highland climate with considerable temperature variations and a lot of rain. The wetness results in lush gardens and spectacular flower beds. Windhoek has only 160,000 people, but Namibia's ethnic mix is reflected throughout the city's streets.  The city centre is characterised by a mix of German colonial structures and pastel-coloured modern buildings. Dominating the skyline is Christuskirche, the neo-Gothic and Art Nouveau-designed German Lutheran church. Other striking buildings include the parliament building, Tintenpalast; the whitewashed Alte Feste, an old fort that's now a museum; and the Cape Dutch-style railway station, which dates back to 1912.  Windhoek is great for meandering around on foot, and the hour-long Hofmeyer Walk takes in the nearby bushland of the Klein Windhoek Valley and provides a panoramic view of the city. In the centre of the Post Street pedestrian mall is a display of 33 meteorites from the Gibeon meteor shower, which deposited 21 tonnes (24 US tons) of extraterrestrial boulders on the area of Gibeon in southern Namibia in 1837.  
africa_namibia_environment.html:  Environment  Namibia is on Africa's south-west coast, bordering South Africa in the south, Botswana in the east, and Angola in the north. The skinny eastern appendage, the Caprivi Strip, connects Namibia to Zambia and Zimbabwe. The country is largely arid, but encompasses broad geographical variations and is usually divided into four regions: the Namib Desert and Coastal Plains along the coast; the scrubby, eastward-sloping Central Plateau; the Kalahari sands along the Botswana and South African borders; and the dense bushveld (woodland) of the north-eastern Kavango and Caprivi regions. The northern border is flush with rivers that provide water to most of Namibia.  The Namib Desert, the world's oldest arid region, has been around for over 80 million years. It extends along Namibia's entire Atlantic coast. Namib landscapes range from the mountainous red dunes in the south to the centre's interior plains and flat-topped, steep-sided, isolated mountains called inselbergs. The desert is scored by a number of rivers that rise in the Central Plateau but seldom carry water. East of the desert, the altitude increases and the dunes give way to gravel plains. In the north, these plains are honeycombed with caves and rock shelters that once harboured early humans.  Namibia has some of Africa's most diverse natural habitats. Even in the desert you'll find elephants, giraffes and zebras; lions once came down to the sea, but have been pushed out of the dunes by poachers. Flocks of flamingoes live in Etosha National Park in the north. The Cape Cross Seal Reserve on the central coast is home to 100,000 Cape fur seals.  Although it's predominantly desert, Namibia enjoys regional climatic variations. The most arid climate is found in the central Namib, where summer daytime temperatures climb to over 40 C (105 F) but can fall to below freezing at night. Daytime temperatures in the mountainous and semi-arid Central Plateau (including Windhoek) are generally lower than in the rest of the country. Fog is common on the coast. December is the hottest month everywhere, when daily temperatures hit an average high of 30 C (86 F). There are two rainy seasons: the 'little rains' from October to December and the main rainy period from January to April. Low-lying areas in the eastern part of the country are generally much hotter than the Central Plateau and, except for Kavango and Caprivi in the north-east, receive little rain.  
africa_namibia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most visitors to Namibia do not require a visaHealth risks: Bilharzia (in the east), malaria (in the north-east)Time:GMT/UTC plus two hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The dry winter season (May to October) is the most pleasant time to visit Namibia. It's best to avoid Namib-Naukluft Park and Etosha National Park in the extreme heat between December and March. Resort areas are busiest during both Namibian and South African school holidays, which usually take place from mid-December to mid-January, late-April to early June, and late-August to mid-September.     Events  A big event to watch for is Maherero Day, on the weekend nearest 26 August, when the Herero people gather in traditional dress at Okahandja (just north of Windhoek) for a memorial service to the chiefs killed in the Khoi-Khoi and German wars. In October there's a similar event for the Hereros in Omaruru (north-west of Windhoek) to honour their chief Zeraua. Independence Day on 21 March is celebrated with feasts and festivities all over Namibia. The Windhoek Karnival held over a week in late April/early May is a big social event for city sophisticates, as is the Küste Karnival at Swakopmund in late August or early September, and the Windhoek Agricultural, Commercial and Industrial Show in late September. Oktoberfest, with all its beer swilling and sausage sizzling, is vigourously celebrated throughout the country in late October.    
africa_namibia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Central Plateau is the prize of colonialism. This is prime agricultural land and the German and Afrikaner settlers and their families who have inherited this area run sheep and cattle on vast, wide-open rural properties, or grow citrus fruit and market vegetables. Towns are widely spaced, and Namibia's main arterial north-south route, the B1, cuts through the region. This road is so good that most passers-by pass by way too fast to appreciate the surrounds.  The small town of Rehoboth was established as a Rhenish mission station in 1844, but was abandoned 20 years later only to be revived in the 1870s by the Basters (literally 'bastards'), an ethnic group of mixed Khoi-Khoi/Afrikaner origin who are very proud of their history and name (rather than considering it offensive, the people are proud of their name and their heritage). The Reho Spa complex is built around a thermal spring, and there's a fine museum housed in the 1903 residence of the first postmaster.   Brukkaros is a 2km (1.2mi) wide volcanic crater which can be seen from the B1 between Mareintal and Keetmanshoop. From the car park there's a path that leads to the crater's southern rim, a half-hour's walk away, and from there you can enter the crater and proceed to an abandoned research station. Camping is permitted anywhere in the crater and Brukkaros's famous clear night skies make this an unforgettable experience.  The central crossroads in southern Namibia is Keetmanshoop, a town of 15,000 people and the centre of the regional wool industry. Keetmanshoop has more petrol stations per capita than any other place in Namibia. It was originally a settlement for the Nama people, and the Rhenish Mission Society founded a town there in 1866. Here too are many fine colonial-era buildings, and  Keetmanshoop Museum is well worth exploring. Tours are available from the town to areas of interest in southern Namibia, including the mighty Fish River Canyon and Lüderitz.  
africa_nigeria_activities.html:  Activities  Nigeria is not known for its teeming wildlife but Yankari National Park is the place to see what there is. It's an bird watching's dream with over 600 species roosting around its interior. The Gashaka Game Reserve, near Yola, is the largest national park in Nigeria and is home to chimp, hippos and a staggering number of birds. Gembu, near the Cameroon border, is good for hiking as is Bukura, especially around the Kurra Falls. Another popular hiking destination is the Assop Waterfalls but if you visit the falls be prepared for a day hike or longer (camping may be possible). There are a number of popular swimming beaches around Lagos, although the water is never clear and some beaches have a strong undertow.  
africa_nigeria_attractions.html:  Attractions  According to popular wisdom the best thing about Lagos is leaving it. It's a city that still believes itself to be the capital of Nigeria even though officially Abuja now has that honour. Lagos is a sprawling, steamy, overpopulated city with bumper-to-bumper traffic, an international reputation for crime, a corrupt and top-heavy bureaucracy, a creaking infrastructure and a highly visible poverty factor. Add kamikaze drivers and gun-toting law enforcers to the mix and you have a city where just about anything can, and does, happen.  However if you use a little bit of street savvy Lagos can offer you a number of unique experiences. It has more night clubs and live music than just about any other West African city and is chiefly known for its music. The late Fela Kuti came from an outer suburb of Lagos. Sunny Ade, king of juju music, still calls it home as does the Afro-reggae specialist Sonny Okosun. Sunny Ade's club Ariya Night Club is in Yaba and is worth a visit as is the open-air Jazz 38 where, if you've had the foresight to bring your own musical instrument with you, you might score an invitation to jam with the band.  The National Museum, on Lagos Island, is worth a visit for its impressive bronze sculptures and ivory carvings from Benin and for its masks and terracotta antiquities from Jos. From ancient relics to modern ruins, the other note-worthy exhibition is the bullet-riddled car in which Murtala Mohammed, a former head of state, was assassinated.  The heart of Lagos is Lagos Island where all the major banks, department stores, restaurants and black marketeers are to be found. Most of the embassies and big houses are on Victoria and Ikoyi Islands. The three islands together make up most of downtown Lagos. A strong word of warning: Lagos is one of the most crime-ridden cities in the world, so you need to be switched on at all times. Never walk around alone and always take a taxi at night.  
africa_nigeria_environment.html:  Environment  Over three times the size of the UK, Nigeria occupies 15% of West Africa but has 56% of its people. It sits on the Gulf of Guinea sandwiched to the north by Niger, the east by Cameroon and the west by Benin. Most of Nigeria is flat and unexciting apart from the mountains that run along the Cameroon border, and the lush tropical rainforest in the interior which opens out onto the central grasslands of the Jos plateau. To the east is the soggy, mosquito-infested swamplands of the Bight of Benin which hold Nigeria's most precious commodity, oil.  Nigeria has extraordinary biological diversity but is facing environmental disaster. Rapid deforestation is an unfortunate consequence of its ever increasing population and in West Africa only C te d'Ivoire cuts down trees at a faster rate. However, there are still a number of reserves and national parks where you can hang out with nature and get into bird watching. Both the Yankari National Park and the Gashaka Game Reserve are home to over 600 species of birds. Okomo Sanctuary and Cross River National Park have less of the feathery animals and more of the furry four-footed kind - chimps, hippos, elephants and baboons - and if you're lucky you may get a glimpse of a gorilla (once thought to have packed up and left the area), at Cross River National Park.  Like everything else about Nigeria the climate is varied and differs substantially from region to region. The north is hot and dry with one long rainy season from April to September, while in the south it is hot and wet with the rainy season lasting from March to November. Temperatures are slightly lower in the tropical regions of the south but it's the humidity that's a real killer. Relief from the humidity only comes in December and January during the Harmattan season when cool dry winds blow off the desert.  
africa_nigeria_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors are required to have a visa except for citizens of countries belonging to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS).Health risks: A yellow fever vaccination is required, and cerebral malaria precautions need to be taken in Lagos and the southern coast.Time: GMT/UTC plus one hourElectricity: 220v, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit Nigeria is from December to March when the humidity drops, although the catch is that you may then suffer from the dusty Harmattan winds. If a bit of sand in the face doesn't bother you, go in January when you can attend the Sallah celebrations in northern Nigeria followed by the Argungu Fishing Festival on the banks of the Sokoto River in mid-to-late February.     Events  Of all the festivals in West Africa the most elaborate are the ones held in northern Nigeria - in particular Kano, Zaria and Katsina - for the two most important Islamic holidays: the end of Ramadan (the Islamic period of fasting) and Tabaski (69 days later). The exact dates differ from year to year but is usually sometime in late January or early February and again in late April. The principal event of the celebrations is the Durbar, a colourful parade of ornately dressed Hausa-Fulani horsemen, Emirs dressed in ceremonial robes, bicep-flexing wrestlers and lute players in headdresses.  Occurring shortly after the Sallah celebrations is the Argungu Fishing and Cultural Festival (sometime in mid to late February) on the banks of the Sokoto River. This internationally acclaimed festival is fishing with a difference and involves barehanded fishing, duck hunting, swimming and other watery competitions. More water-based celebrations take place around August at the Pategi Regatta, halfway between Ibadan and Kaduna, with the highlight of the regatta being the rowing competition.    
africa_nigeria_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Oshogbo is the cradle of Yoruba art and has produced more art in the last 30 years than anywhere else in Africa. The best time to see Oshogbo is during the Oshun Festival (last week in August) when dancing and sacrificial rites are performed. Be sure to catch the Oja Oba Market for the latest in juju material.  Oshogbo is famous for its Sacred Forest, an area that holds massive sculptures and monumental shrine complexes dedicated to different Yoruba gods. Many of these shrines are falling into disrepair and being reclaimed by the forest but since the 1950s the Austrian sculptor, Suzanne Wenger, has been working to bring the shrines back to life.  The city of Oshogbo is 200km (142mi) north of Lagos and can be reached by bush taxis or share taxis.  
africa_niger_activities.html:  Activities  Niger is more for looking than doing, but in the south, where the river cuts across the country, you can go sailing in a pirogue (dugout canoe) down the Niger River. Up north, providing rebel skirmishes have not closed the area down, you can go on organised tours, or camel treks, through the mountainous region of Agadez, and into the vast terrain of the Teneree Desert.  
africa_niger_attractions.html:  Attractions  Niamey has grown in leaps and bounds over the last two decades, and has a number of modern government buildings, streetlights, and tarred roads, all courtesy of the uranium-funded boom of the 1970s. But despite its modern veneer the city still has an African ambience and charm and as the city cools down at night it's easy to sit and shoot the breeze with someone, have a meal and a drink, and gaze at the stars overhead. As with everywhere else in the desert this is when you'll most appreciate being there.  Niamey is the only place in Niger you can get online. Mysteriously, access to Yahoo seems to be easier than Hotmail.  The Grand Marche in Niger is one of the best in West Africa. It's been completely rebuilt since being burnt to the ground in the mid 1980s, and funky architecture and tinkling fountains have replaced the old-style market. Your wallet can become considerably lighter with all the goodies on display - leather work, silver jewellery, clothing, crafts, batik - but what's truly spectacular are the couvertures Djerma, large bright strips of cotton lightly sewn together that make great wall hangings.  The Grande Mosquee is another new building, financed by Libya and open to both males and females. The Musee National du Niger is well worth a visit, particularly for its life size models of Tuareg, Hausa, Djerma, Fulani, and Toubou, alongside their traditional dwellings, and for the artisans' area that demonstrates traditional artistic techniques, along with the opportunity to buy any number of beautifully crafted pieces of jewellery or silver work.  Niamey is a fairly large Sahelian city and getting lost is always on the cards. It's easier if you take your bearings by the main market and remember that the two main drags intersect here, and that most of the hotels, restaurants, or buildings that you may need are clustered south west of this intersection point. Going even further in a southwesterly direction will eventually bring you to the river. To the southeast of the intersection is a major roundabout, with roads to the airport, and out of town.  
africa_niger_environment.html:  Environment  At over 650km (403mi) from the sea, Niger is severely landlocked. It has Algeria and Libya to the north, Chad to the east, Nigeria and Benin to the south, and Burkina Faso and Mali to the west. At nearly twice the size of France, Niger is one of the larger West African countries, but one of its least densely populated, with 90% of its people clustered in the greener areas down south, away from the searing deserts of the north. It's shaped like a wonky hot water bottle lying on its side, with nearly two thirds of it being desert, and the other third semi-desert, or Sahel. Only a small southern section, in the bottleneck of Niger, gets enough rain to support crops. The ratio of desert to semi-desert is ever increasing, and there is a danger that the country may, one day, disappear under a blanket of sand. Water supplies in Niger are limited, and the Niger River flows only through a small region down the very south of the country.  The rapid desertification of Niger is due to several factors, all piggybacking one on top of the other; the devastating droughts of the 1970s, overgrazing, the scavenging of trees for firewood, and the pure quartz sands of the region that make high yield crops (and subsequent anchoring of top soil) impossible. This situation is particularly noticeable in the north and middle regions, although Niger does get enough rain in the south to support a range of wildlife - hippos, giraffes, elephants, buffalo and leopard - in its national park.  Generally speaking, Niger is either hot or hotter than hell, with average temperatures around 30 C (86 F) but capable of reaching over 50 C (122 F) in the hot season between March and June. The air is so hot during these months that rain evaporates before it hits the ground. December through to February are cooler months and the temperature can actually drop to freezing in the night-time desert. The Harmattan winds usually arrive just before the rains, sometime between December and February, and can cut visibility down to almost nothing. The rainy season usually lasts from June to October, and can make travelling around difficult.  
africa_niger_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas:Visas are required by everyone except nationals of some West African countries. There are few Niger embassies around the world so getting a visa requires careful planning. Visas can only be obtained in a limited number of West African countries.Health risks:Vaccination certificates for yellow fever and cholera are required.Time:GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity:220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Niger is uncomfortable pretty much all year round, but the best time to go is in the cooler months between November and February. You might get a bit of sand in the face from the dusty Harmattan winds in November, but it's not totally unbearable. It's also the best time to visit Parc W, Niger's game reserve, which closes during the wet season. If you find yourself there a little earlier, in the month of September, you can catch the Cure Salee.     Events   The Cure Sale is one of the brightest and biggest celebrations in West Africa. It occurs just before the rains come, and is a hurly-burly of socialising and catching up, as herders meet around the salt pans of Ingal and rest and wait for the blessed rain. One of the highlights of the Cure Sale is the  gerewol festival held by the nomadic Wodaabe tribe; a race of tall, lithe, physically beautiful people, with elegant, feminine features...and that's just the men! In fact it's the Wodaabe men who participate in a male beauty contest that lasts for hours, and which involves hours of pre-concert preening, dancing, and face-pulling, for the benefit of the female judges. The gerewol takes place in September.  The other large festival celebrates National Festival Day, in mid-April, with a week of dancing, wrestling, and camel racing. If you're in Niger at the beginning of August, check out Republic Day at Dosso. There's a famous cavalry parade with both riders and horses decked out in all their colourful finery. In the city of Agadez, during the Islamic celebrations of Tabaski, the Tuareg whoop it up with one of their favourite pastimes; camel racing. The cavalcade is a mad harem-scarem dash on camel, through the narrow crowded streets of the town, to the square in front of the Sultan's palace.    
africa_niger_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Tenere Desert, 500km (310mi) as the crow flies northeast of Agadez, is an enormous emptiness that extends over 700km (434mi) of space. It is often known as the desert of deserts, and reputedly has some of the most beautiful sand dunes in the entire Sahara. If you head east toward Bilma, you'll pass close to the dinosaur cemetery, full of fossils spread out over 150km (65mi) of constantly shifting sand dunes. Further into the desert is the Djado Plateau, with its ruined villages, rock engravings and glorious landscapes, and after that the oases of the Kaouar Plateau, where you'll find Bilma and Fachi, places that truly look, and feel, like the end of the earth.  Most travellers are better off looking for a reliable organised tour that will take in both the A r Mountains and the Tenere Desert. You can rent a car and a guide if you can't find a good tour group, but make sure that the terms of the hiring are clearly spelled out. Attempting the crossing on your own is not recommended. Government authorisation is required for all such trips. The distance from Niamey to the edge of the Tenere Desert is over 1500km (930mi).  
africa_reunion_activities.html:  Activities  In true French style, the recreational emphasis in Reunion is on sweat, adventure, and pushing beyond conventional limits. There are established clubs for just about every sort of activity you can imagine. However, more than anything, Reunion's geological history has made it a haven for the serious and occasional trekker. There are dozens of day hikes and multi-day hikes throughout the island. The volcano and high-rugged cirques of Cilaos, Salazie and Mafate are superb. The terrain has also led to an explosion of interest in mountain biking and the appropriate velo tout terrain or VTT is easy to rent for half or full-day excursions. Diving is concentrated around St-Gilles-les-Bains, as is snorkelling, swimming and other water activities. The only surf spots are also around St-Gilles-les-Bains. For adventure seekers, there's the exhilaration of canyoning, challenging you to abseil down rugged gorges and cliffs into water holes or lagoons below.  
africa_reunion_attractions.html:  Attractions  St-Denis is an attractive, lively and expensive capital city. Even visitors with a healthy supply of cash may feel a bit alien unless they have local friends to introduce them around the cafe set. St-Denis is known to some as the Paris of the Indian Ocean but unlike Paris, you won't find loads of down-at-heel student travellers struggling to survive on a slim budget. In their place are legions of hopeful workers from Madagascar, Mauritius, the African mainland and the EU - some legal and some not - searching for lucrative employment.  The chic area of town is Le Barachois, St-Denis' promenade venue, which lies at the eastern end of the waterfront. Here are the upmarket bars and sidewalk cafes as well as the H tel Le Saint-Denis, one of the ritziest places to stay. There is also a variety of impressive Creole mansions in St-Denis. The best advice is to wander and see what you discover. Of interest are the Monument aux Morts, the tall victory monument; the H tel de Ville (town hall), considered by many to be the city's most beautiful building; the Cathedrale de St-Denis; and the Prefecture, which was begun in 1735 and served as the Compagnie des Indes headquarters. The Grand Marche is the main handicraft market, featuring a mishmash of items for sale such as Malagasy wooden handicrafts, spices, baskets and furniture.  The hill districts behind St-Denis offer great views over the town and are starting points for treks to La Roche Ecrite, a high peak often obscured by clouds. Although it isn't technically in the Cirque de Mafate, it does offer a spectacular view of the lower cirque. Dawn is the best time to see it.  
africa_reunion_environment.html:  Environment  The island of Reunion lies in the Indian Ocean, about 800km (500mi) east of Madagascar and roughly 220km (140mi) south-west of Mauritius. It's just slightly smaller than the US state of Rhode Island and just a bit larger than Mauritius, but with around half the population of the latter. Just in case anyone was in doubt about its origins, its active volcano, Piton de la Fournaise, erupted in 1986, spewing lava into the sea and adding a few square metres to the island.  There are two major mountain zones on Reunion; one covers two-thirds of the island's western half. The highest peak is Piton des Neiges at 3069m (10,066ft) an alpine-class peak. Surrounding it are the three immense and splendid amphitheatres: the cirques of Cilaos, Mafate and Salazie. These long, wide, deep hollows are sheer-walled canyons filled with convoluted peaks and valleys, the eroded remnants of the ancient volcanic shield which surrounded Piton des Neiges. The smaller mountain zone lies in the south-east and is still evolving. No one lives in the shadow of the volcano, where lava flowing down to the shore has left a jumbled slope of cooled black volcanic rock. Between these two major mountainous zones are the high plains and the valley plains, and all the central plains are ringed by a coastal plain of varying width.  Reunion not only takes it from the volcano now and again, it also gets a lashing from cyclones. Cyclone Clotilde, which crashed into the island on Black Friday (13 February 1987 - a memorable Friday the 13th), causing millions of dollars of damage to crops, roads and buildings. There was another nasty cyclone in 1992. Because of the high mountains, the island's climate varies more than that of Mauritius. However, it still experiences only two distinct seasons: the hot, rainy summer from October to March and the cool, dry winter from April to September. The windward east coast is considerably wetter than the dry, brown west coast, but the wettest region is the heights above the east coast.  Temperatures on the coast average 21 C (70 F) during winter and 28 C (82 F) during summer. In the mountains, they drop to a 12 C (54 F) daily high in winter and 18 C (64 F) in summer.  
africa_reunion_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visa requirements are the same as for France. Citizens of the US, Canada, New Zealand, the European Union and a handful of other countries may enter Reunion for up to 3 months without a visa, but Australians and others must have a visa.Health risks: NoneTime: GMT/UTC plus 4 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Climate should be your first consideration if you want to experience Reunion at its best. The only time to seriously consider trekking through Reunion's spectacular mountain country is during the dry season from April to September. The downside of climate-related trip planning is that everyone else has the same idea. You're strongly advised to book well in advance, especially during the peak tourist times. April, May and the French school holidays from late July to early September are the busiest times, and in August you risk being left high and dry without accommodation unless you book in advance. This is also high trekking season. The quietest times are during cyclone-prone February and March. The seasons normally change in April and that isn't too bad for a time for a visit; but, for maximum spatial and climatic enjoyment, May and June are probably the best months of all.     Events  Major festivals in Reunion involve exhibitions with competitions, sports events, music, dancing and various other activities. The Indian community is principally made up of Tamil Hindus and they hold some amazing rites, including cavadees and fire-walking ceremonies. The Hindu temple in St-Andre is the most popular location for these events. Towns and villages across the island take turns at celebrating over a week or weekend; the excuse is to honour their primary product, which can be anything from chou chou to sugar cane. Examples include the F te de la Vanille in Bras-Panon, celebrating vanilla for 10 days in mid-May; the F te du Safran in St-Joseph, celebrating saffron for 10 days in August; the F te des Letchis in St-Denis, celebrating lychees for one week in mid-December.    
africa_reunion_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Etang-Sale-les-Bains is the beginning of the holiday coast, though the area remains very much an agricultural community. On weekends, the black-sand beach is much quieter than the coast further north around St-Gilles-les-Bains. The town itself is sheltered by a coral reef which, with extreme caution, is accessible on foot at low tide. Near town is a 2ha (5ac) bird park operated by the Office National des For ts.  
africa_rwanda_activities.html:  Activities   Gorilla tracking is the famous activity of choice in the Parc Nacional des Volcans, where Dian Fossey spent 18 years studying the impressive and fascinating beasts until her murder by poachers in 1985. This national park re-opened in July 1999 after years of civil violence in the surrounding area and is once again the place in East Africa for observing mountain gorillas. A military unit stands guard over the park and has so far ensured the safety of foreign visitors from groups such as the extremist Hutu militias who killed eight tourists in Uganda's Bwindi National Park in March 1999.  The safety of trekkers in the Parc Nacional des Volcans, however, is a much more ethereal concept. Though there are a number of possibilities for scaling the area's volcanic heights - ranging from four-hour return trips to two-day summit blitzes - Rwandan authorities do not currently allow treks up the slopes due to rebel factions lying low on the mountains, not to mention the odd land mine or two. But with any luck, it won't be too long before the routes up Visoke, Karisimbi, Sabinyo and the other spectacular, view-ridden cones are re-opened.  
africa_rwanda_attractions.html:  Attractions  Flowing along and down the sides of a ridge in what appears to be the exact centre of Rwanda is the country's capital, Kigali. The city is small but rates big on the attractiveness scale, dotted as it is with a wide variety of colourful flora and with a number of viewpoints looking out over Rwanda's other 999 hills. Besides the natural splendour of its verdant location, there's not a lot of sightseeing material in Kigali; in fact, just the opposite applies to the parts of the city that have yet to undergo architectural rehabilitation from the damage inflicted during the last round of civil conflict. However, Kigali does offer a good number of eateries, clubs and liquid refreshment joints and is a good place to indulge the senses.  The nightlife in Kigali is accessible with a fair degree of safety, though just like most other African cities it still pays to be cautious and taxis are recommended after dark. There's an NGO-satisfying array of restaurants clustered around Place de l'Independence that serve up everything from regional African fare to upmarket French dishes to Italian, Greek, Indian and Chinese cuisines. Sprinkled among these are numerous bars and a batch of nightclubs of the please-stay-and-watch-the-sun-come-up variety, frequented by a sometimes beguiling mixture of locals, expats and folk for hire.  For a taste of grim reality, a drive of just under an hour from the capital will bring you to either of the genocide memorials at Nyamata and Ntarama. Be warned, though, that these aren't memorials in the polished, symbolic sense, but are the bare bones of places that bore witness to the butchery of 1994.  
africa_rwanda_environment.html:  Environment  Rwanda is a relatively teensy East African country of 10,270 sq mi (16,534 sq km). It's bordered by the equally teensy Burundi to the south, the larger Uganda to the north, the getting-pretty-big Tanzania to the east, and the enormous, embattled mass of Congo (Zai\''re) to the west. Rwanda is not called the 'Land of a Thousand Hills' for nothing - its mostly mountainous landscape includes the volcanic Virunga range in the northwest and is a result of its location on the western edge of the upheaval-prone Great Rift Valley. What Rwanda lacks in size and flatness it makes up for in population - there are around 10,000,000 people squeezed between its borders, making it one of the most densely populated countries in Africa.  Grassy bits predominate in Rwanda, but there are small tracts of rainforest scattered around the western and northeastern edges of the country and tropical savannah in the east. The largest half-body of water in the country is Lake Kivu, which Rwanda has split right down the middle with Congo (Zai\''re). A lot of Rwanda's ground cover has been manually introduced in the form of tea plantations, which are littered along numerous terraces carved haphazardly (and, in terms of water usage, inefficiently) out of the hillsides and the lower slopes of the country's volcanoes. Much of Rwanda's terrain has fallen victim to massive deforestation and over-farming, not much of a surprise considering the large population and the fact that agriculture is Rwanda's main employer and export earner. Fauna-wise, the most prominent examples are the mountain gorillas of Parc Nacional des Volcans and the black-and-white Colobus monkeys of Nyungwe Forest.  Average daily temperatures range from 86-93 F (30-34 C), except in the highlands where 53-59 F (12-15 C) is more the norm. A hard rain falls from mid-March to mid-May, while nature cooks on high from mid-May to mid-October. The rainforests blanketing the volcanoes in the northeast tend to see more rain than the rest of the country and snow is not uncommon on the highest peaks.  
africa_rwanda_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All foreign nationals bar those from Germany and the USA need a visa to visit Rwanda. A visa arranged in advance of your visit will require US$50 and two passport photos, and will allow you to stay for up to a month; visas of the double or multiple-entry variety are recommended to give you flexibility when it comes to visiting neighbouring countries. But keep in mind that unless you enjoy the prospect of being tied up in red tape and beaten senseless with a manilla folder, it's generally best to organise the visa after you've arrived in East Africa. At the Rwandan border, 15-day visas are issued in a matter of minutes for US$35. Visa extensions of up to 90 days are available at the Ministry of the Interior near Kigali within a day or two of applying (though sometimes much longer) for between US$10-40 depending on the length of the extension.Health risks: Malaria in low-lying regions, cholera, hepatitis, typhoid, HIV, Rift Valley Fever, yellow fever and drinking too muchkonyagi.Time: GMT/UTC + 2 hours.Electricity: 220V ACWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Unless you literally want to soak up the atmosphere, the only time that is not ideal for visiting Rwanda is when the long rains descend from mid-March to mid-May.     Events  Rwanda's public holidays include Democracy Day (8 January), National Day (1 July), Harvest Festival (1 August) and Culture Day (8 September), as well as the standard celebrations of New Year's Day, Easter and Christmas.    
africa_rwanda_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Travellers are once again making their way to the beautiful bamboo and rainforest-covered slopes of this volcano-crowded national park in Rwanda's northwest, after authorities undid the hefty official chain and padlock that had prevented access up until mid-1999. The park had been closed for several years prior to this because of fighting in the area between government troops and soldiers of the rebel Rwandan Patriotic Front. The upper environs of some of the area's seven volcanoes are apparently still occupied by fugitive Hutu militias and inestimable quantities of unexploded ordnance, so, unfortunately, hitting any of the many spectacular climbing trails is not an option at this time. But for most visitors that's OK, because what is currently accessible (thanks to the security provided by a military post) is the large, hirsute creature that most of them have come here to see.  The mountain gorillas of East Africa are now thought to number barely 600 and are distributed throughout national parks along the shared borders of Rwanda, Uganda (Bwindi and Mgahinga national parks) and Congo (Za re). There are four groups of the primates that can be visited with the help of guides in the Parc Nacional des Volcans, most of them on the slopes of a volcano called Visoke - visits are limited to an hour and the permit fee for the experience that many travellers rate an African highlight is US$250.  
africa_sao_tome_and_principe_activities.html:  Activities  The diving and snorkelling are spectacular as the water is so clear, and deep sea game fishing is also taking off as a sport. On land, hiking through rainforest and birdwatching are the main events besides kicking back and relaxing under the palm trees.  
africa_sao_tome_and_principe_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital is a picturesque little town on the north-east coast of the main island. Nestled on a bay, it is full of badly neglected Portuguese colonial buildings but superbly maintained parks and gardens. The town centre is small enough to negotiate on foot in a couple of hours. Worth seeing are the 16th century cathedral, and the National Museum in the 400 year-old Fort S o Sebasti o on the peninsula, about 1.2km (.7mi) from the centre of town. It has a good range of displays on agriculture, religion, handcrafts and juju, and a hard hitting display on the slave trade. You should also not miss the Agustinho Neto Manor House, with more than 30 rooms behind one facade. The old Santo Antonio Quarter is fascinating to walk around and it reveals some of the island's history.  There is a limited number of reasonable hotels and pens os around the centre of town, some of them clean and family run. The best place for street food is around the market, where you can find cheap bread rolls stuffed with canned salami or sausages from Portugal. Several restaurants offer good, Portuguese-inspired meals for as little as US$3.  
africa_sao_tome_and_principe_environment.html:  Environment  Both islands grew out of volcanoes, and they have central, volcanic highlands from which numerous fast flowing streams barrel down to the sea. They are slightly larger in area than New York City, and bask under the sun in the Bight of Biafra, just north of the equator. The rainforests were thick on both islands until the Portuguese arrived and established plantations of sugar and cocoa, but dense stands of native bush still survive. Over 80% of the population lives on the island of S o Tome, and more than 75% of that is still forested. The flora and fauna are similar to that on mainland Equatorial Guinea, although there are several endemic species. Both islands are subject to drought and soil erosion owing to loss of forest cover.  The climate is equatorial. The driest and coolest months are from June to September, when temperatures hover around 29 C (82 F). The wettest month is March, when the rain beats down monotonously and temperatures rise to around 30 C (86 F). Several microclimates exist, particularly on S o Tome island, where the north has a drier, savannah-like climate and the south receives much more rain, even during the dry season.  
africa_sao_tome_and_principe_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Everybody needs a visa, and the best place to get one is in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea.Health risks: Malaria, bilharzia and hepatitis.Time:GMT/UTCElectricity: 220/240VWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  It's best to go between June and September. The rest of the year is muggy and hot - you'll be swimming in rain and your own sweat.     Events  S o Tome and Pr ncipe celebrate all the main Christian holidays, as well as Independence Day (12 July) and Martyrs Day (3 February).    
africa_sao_tome_and_principe_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This is a very small island and you can walk anywhere in a day. Because outside visitors are so rare, you'll attract a lot of attention from locals, who may follow you and expect a tip, although they will be friendly. Santo Ant nio is the capital, with similar architecture to S o Tome, if more run down. It is about the size of a large European village, and there are several reasonably priced pens os.  Air S o Tome e Pr ncipe has four flights a week between the islands, and there are infrequent ferries.  
africa_senegal_activities.html:  Activities  Senegal's best beaches are found in the Casamance around Cap Skiring. Closer to Dakar, check out Pointe de Bel-Air and the beaches of N'Gor, Malika-sur-Mer and Yoff. You can rent a sailboard or go water-skiing at several of these beaches. The coast off the Pointe des Almadies offers some of the best scuba diving in West Africa. In particular, check out the waters around le de N'Gor, the Almadies area and le de Goree. The waters are at their best from February to April. If you find the salt water too 'natural' for your liking, nearly all the top-end hotels of Dakar have swimming pools.  Dakar's cool weather means that jogging is a realistic option - a rarity in Africa. Most of the major hotels have tennis and (less commonly) squash courts. Bird-watchers shake their tail feathers for the sights at the Parc National aux Oiseaux du Djoudj, the Parc National de la Langue de Barbarie and the Sine-Saloum Delta. Those hoping to spot something furrier will have better luck at the Parc National de Niokolo-Koba.  
africa_senegal_attractions.html:  Attractions  Dakar gets mixed reviews from travellers. To its supporters, it's a modern, spacious city with a temperate climate and many interesting distractions. Its tree-lined streets and relatively small central area make it easy to walk around, despite its population of over a million, and its clubs and cafes pick up when the daytime attractions go dark. Detractors then point out that the cost of living is very high and some of the city's hustlers won't take no for an answer. You'll have to go and see for yourself. If you don't like Dakar, it's easy enough to escape, with daily transport to all parts of the country; then again, you might just join the ever-growing ranks of resident expatriates.  Dakar's IFAN Museum on Place de Soweto houses a superb collection of masks, statues, musical instruments, stools and agricultural implements from all over West Africa. The handsome white Palais Presidentiel, five short blocks south of the Place de l'Independence, dates from 1906 and is surrounded by sumptuous gardens.  Dakar has two major markets. Marche Kermel, east of the Place towards the port, is housed in a lovely new hall built after the original burnt down in 1993. This lively market sells mainly fruit, clothing, fabrics and souvenirs. The larger Marche Sandaga has more fruit and fewer souvenirs, but for visitors the sheer choice of fabric is a real draw. Dakar also has some of the best Internet facilities in the region, including a 24-hour Internet cafe.  Out of the city centre is the Grande Mosquee, built in 1964, with its landmark minaret that's floodlit at night. The mosque is closed to non-Muslims, but it's worth coming here anyway to see the medina surrounding it. While not picturesque, its bustling atmosphere contrasts sharply with the sophisticated high-rise city centre.   Pointe de Bel-Air, just northeast of the railway station, has two fenced private beaches and sailboards for hire, although the water is not particularly clean. Avoid the other beaches near Dakar, or you'll run a fair risk of being robbed.  
africa_senegal_environment.html:  Environment  Looking like a caricature of some square-jawed, cackling woman with a mouthful of Gambia, Senegal sits at the westernmost edge of the African continent. Its borders are met by Guinea and Guinea-Bissau to the south, Mali to the east, Mauritania to the north and the North Atlantic Ocean to the west. The independent nation of Gambia is entirely enveloped (save where it meets the Atlantic) by Senegal's southwestern region, forming the 'lips' of the giant face and separating northern Senegal from its southern region, called the Casamance. The country as a whole is slightly smaller than Great Britain or the US state of South Dakota.  Senegal's climate is pleasantly tropical, with Dakar ranking as one the coolest, breeziest spots in West Africa. The country's average daily temperatures range from 18 C (65 F) and 31 C (87 F). In the north and central parts, the wet season lasts from July to September, while in the Casamance it's about a month longer on either end. Rainfall averages range from 300mm (12in) in the north to as much as six times that in the south; Dakar gets over 600mm (24in) annually. The dry season (December to April) is plagued by the hot, dry harmattan winds.  Senegal is washed by three rivers: the Senegal in the north, which forms the border with Mauritania; the Gambia in the middle, which is surrounded by Gambia but for it's easternmost origins; and the Casamance in the south, which lends that region its name as well as its striking fertility. Desertification throughout the north of the country is an ever-increasing problem, only partially alleviated by the Manantalli Dam on the Senegal River. The country's lowest points are its Atlantic shores, while its highest lies in the Fouta Djallon foothills, which top out around 580m (1900ft).  Senegal is the most biologically diverse country in the Sahel, the semi-arid region south of the Sahara desert, and boasts over 550 animal species. It is also important for migrating birds, particularly waterfowl, which return in large numbers each winter from Europe, stopping at the Parc National aux Oiseaux du Djoudj, one of the world's major bird reserves, north of St-Louis.  
africa_senegal_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are required for all foreigners, except nationals of Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, South Africa, the UK and the US, who may visit for up to 90 days without a visa.Health risks: Malaria, bilharzia (schistosomiasis), choleraTime: GMT/UTCElectricity: 220VWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to travel in Senegal is between November and February, when it's cool and dry. However, around this same time of year the dry, dusty harmattan winds blow off the Sahara. If you're going there to scuba dive, the waters are at their clearest from February to April. Bird-watchers will want to be around for the November-to-April migratory season.     Events  The Islamic (or Hejira) calendar is a full 11 days shorter than the Gregorian (western) calendar, so public holidays and festivals fall 11 days earlier each year. In March for the next few years, Ras as-Sana is the Islamic celebration of the new year. Moulid an-Nabi celebrates the prophet Mohammed's birthday around May. Ramadan is celebrated during the ninth month of the Islamic calendar (presently towards the end of the Gregorian calendar year), commemorating the month when the Qur'an was revealed to Mohammed. Out of deference, Muslims take neither food nor water until after sunset each day. At the end of Ramadan ( Eid al-Fitr), the fasting breaks amidst much celebration.  Other festivals include the Grand Magal pilgrimage and celebration, held in Touba 48 days after Ras as-Sana, and the Paris-Dakar Rally, a 10,000km (6200mi) motor race that ends in Dakar around the second week of January.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 1 February - Confederation Day February - Tabaski March or April - Good Friday, Easter Monday 4 April - Independence Day May or June - Ascension Day, Pentecost and Whit Monday 1 May - May Day 15 August - Assumption Day 1 November - All Saints' DayNovember or December - 'Eid al-Fitr 25 December - Christmasback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to SenegalTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
africa_senegal_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Tiny Goree Island, about 3km (2mi) east of Dakar, is a wonderfully peaceful place with about 1000 inhabitants, no asphalt roads and no cars. You'll find colonial-style houses with wrought-iron balconies, an old town hall, decent beaches and Le Castel, a rocky plateau that offers good views of the island and Dakar and is now occupied by a bunch of ganjafied drum junkies.  At the north end of the island, the excellent IFAN Historical Museum is worth a wander. Its superb pictorial and physical exhibits portray Senegalese history up to the present. There's also the Musee Maritime, Musee de la Femme and a tourist market near the ferry ramp that's full of souvenir crafts.  But the highlight - or lowlight, depending on your degree of sensitivity - of a visit to Goree is a trip to the Maison des Esclaves (Slave House), built in 1786 and renovated in 1990 with French assistance. Here, according to the house's tour guides, slaves were stuffed into small pens, inspected and priced like animals before being shipped to the Americas. The curators will go on to tell you how the obstinate ones were chained to the walls and sea water was pumped into their rooms to keep them partially submerged, and how the weaker ones died and were fed to sharks while the stronger survivors were branded with the shipping company's insignia and packed tightly into ships' holds for transportation. Although walking through the dimly lit dungeons (particularly after a visit to the museum) is truly evocative of the horrors of the slave trade, historians now believe it unlikely that the Slave House actually held many captive slaves, apart from those who belonged to the house's owners and maybe a few for trading. While they're anxious to distance themselves from charges of revisionism, they see the promotion of the house as a historical site of significance as mere commercialism based on distortion. Regardless of the promoters' hype and despite the historians' doubts, Slave House and its stories make for a grim reminder of Senegal's involvement in the brutal trade.  
africa_seychelles_activities.html:  Activities  The Seychelles are all about water. Snorkelling is a must-do for every visitor - the best sports around Mahe are Ste anne, Anse Soleil, Petite Anse and le Souris. Off Praslin, try around Chauve Souris Island. Diving, particularly around the outlying islands, is considered world class. There are several schools offering courses and equipment is available for hire. Windsurfing is particularly popular on Mahe and Praslin. Plenty of charter operation will take you deep-sea fishing.  For hydrophobes, the Seychelles still has plenty on offer. There are some fine challenges for rock climbers, particularly on Praslin and La Digue, where there's great block and cliff-face climbs. There are some great hikes, many of which are described in great detail in a series of brochures produced by the Tourism Division.  
africa_seychelles_attractions.html:  Attractions  Victoria, on the island of Mahe is one of the smallest capital cities in the world, and the only major port in the Seychelles. It's also the only town in the country - every other settlement is a village. The courthouse and main post office in the centre of town have been untouched since colonial times, but the streets emanating from the centre have been rebuilt over the past 20 years, giving the town a clean and modern look. There are a few old houses and shops in the city centre, but barely enough to give the town any character.  The Natural History Museum is right in the centre of town, and specialises in natural history. It's a pretty eclectic collection: there's the bones of the extinct Seychelles crocodile, giant robber crabs, dried out fish, a deformed piglet in a jar and lots of glassy-eyed stuffed animals. Other displays include the wreckage of a ship which came to grief off the Amiranteds in 1570 and a display of gris gris artefacts. If you're more interested in the history of the country's people, visit the National History Museum or the Seychelles People's United Party Museum, which celebrates the history of the party.  Victoria's Botanical Gardens are highly recommended for short and shady walks among a variety of native and introduced trees. Within the gardens is a cafeteria, a pen of giant tortoises and an orchid garden.  Victoria has plenty of guesthouses at budget prices (well, as budget as the Seychelles gets), but they're all out in the suburbs. This is also one of the best places on the island for relatively cheap eats, as well as the odd up-market, romantic restaurant.  
africa_seychelles_environment.html:  Environment  The Seychelles is a group of about 115 islands which lie 1600km (990mi) off the coast of east Africa. The three central islands - Mahe, Praslin and La Digue - are granite, while the outlying islands are coral atolls. Unlike most similar islands, the Seychelles are not volcanic - they seem to be the peaks of a huge underwater plateau which fell off the edge of India about 65 million years ago.  The Seychelles are a haven for wildlife, particularly birds and tropical fish. The islands are rich in vegetation, but most of it is either coconut palms or casuarinas. There's virgin forest on the highlands of Male and Silhouette, and in the Vallee de Mai on Praslin, where you'll find the extremely rare giant coco de mer palm. In these high, remote areas you might also find the insect-eating pitcher plant, as well as a veritable bouquet of orchids, bouganvilleas, hibiscuses, gardenias and frangipani.  The islands aren't exactly swarming with furry or scaly wildlife: you might spot skinks, flying foxes and geckoes. Insects are far more common, and the giant rhinoceros beetle almost qualifies for reptile status anyway. What you'll really notice is the profusion of birds. The islands are isolated and were settled late, so many species exist here that you'll find nowhere else. If you're interested in birds, pay a visit to Bird, Cousin, Aride or Fregate Islands, which are bird sanctuaries.  The Seychelles has four marine national parks, and more than 150 species of tropical reef fish have been identified. Snorkel off any reef-protected shore here and you'll get an eyeful of fish and coral. Dolphin and porpoise are common between the islands, shark and barracuda less so, although the Seychelles are renowned for their game fishing. French and English settlers did a pretty good job of slaughtering the Seychelles' endemic giant tortoises, but there is a free-roaming colony on Curieuse, and Cousin and Bird Island reserves are fighting it out for the title of 'home to the world's largest tortoise'.  The Seychelles' seasons are defined by the beginning and end of the south-east trade winds, which usually blow from May to October. For the rest of the year, the islands are swept by the monsoons, which bring the rain, especially in January. Mahe and Silhouette get the most rain. January is the wettest month, July and August the driest, while every month the temperature fluctuates between 24 C (75 F) and 31 C (88 F) and the humidity sweats at around 80%.  
africa_seychelles_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are not required for most visitors to Seychelles, but you'll need an onward ticket, booked accommodation and sufficient funds for your stay; a US$100 'environmental charge' is levied on all visitors.Health risks: NoneTime: GMT/UTC plus four hoursElectricity: 240V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  You should plan your trip to the Seychelles around what you want to do. Windsurfing and sailing are best at the start and end of the trade winds, usually around May and October. Some beaches are better during the monosoon season, others during the trade winds. Diving is best in March, April, May, September, October and November. Room rates are highest and everything is busiest in December, January, July and August.     Events  With its short history, the Seychelles isn't exactly overloaded with traditional festivals. Most public holidays are Roman Catholic events, including Easter, Corpus Christi, on 10 June, the Assumption, on 15 August, and the Immaculate Conception, on 8 December. The one major non-religious festival is Festival Kreol, which was set up to preserve and promote Creole culture. Held every year around the end of October, this week-long festival is an explosion of Creole cuisine, fashion, art, music and dance. Creole artists from all over the world descend on the Seychelles for this festival of street theatre.    
africa_seychelles_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  About 20km (12mi) from Mahe, Silhouette is a large granite island which rises steeply from its beaches to three high peaks. Visitors have described this island as eerie and mystical - it looks particularly dark and mysterious at sunset. Rumour has it there's pirate treasure in the hills - whether it's true or not, there are some interesting caves. The beaches on Silhouette are protected by a reef and are great for swimming, snorkelling, or lazing around developing melanomas.  If you're after something a bit more strenuous, take a walk to the top of Mont Pot a Eau to see the bizarre carnivorous pitcher plant. Along the track you'll see coco de mer palms and monstrous millipedes, slugs and snails.  You can get to Silhouette by helicopter from Mahe, or you can join a tour, arrange a package deal or charter a boat.  
africa_south_africa_activities.html:  Activities  Active bods will have no trouble wearing out their sneakers in South Africa: the country offers everything from ostrich riding to the world's highest bungee jump! There are excellent hiking trails, usually with accommodation, although the intrepid might find them a bit overpopulated. Mountain biking is getting more popular and it's even possible to cycle through some of the wildlife parks. If that sounds a bit hairy, it's easy to plan safaris in South Africa's national parks and reserves. Airborne pursuits are popular: hang-gliding is a buzz off Table Mountain and there are ballooning and parachuting operators at the beach resorts. South Africa isn't known for its rafting and canoeing - it's more floating through landscape than testing out your life jacket - but there is some beautiful desert wilderness to glide through on the Orange River in the far north. Bird-watchers and flower sniffers love it here: for diversity, colour and sheer quantity, it's hard to beat. South Africa also has some of the best, least-crowded surfing in the world. Most surfers will have heard of Jeffrey's Bay, but the east and south coasts tube right the way along.  
africa_south_africa_attractions.html:  Attractions  Like all South African cities, Cape Town is ambivalent - European but not European, African but not African - a mixture of the third and first worlds. But when it comes to being one of the most beautiful cities in the world, it is unequivocal. Even the transient visitor will appreciate this city, its mountains and the sea. Cape Town, South Africa's oldest settlement, is dominated by the kilometre high flat-topped Table Mountain and superb mountain walks, vineyards and beaches are all within easy reach. Despite an increase in street crime in recent years, Cape Town remains one of the most relaxed cities in Africa, which can instil a false sense of security. Paranoia is not required but common sense is.  The city centre lies to the north of Table Mountain. The commercial centre, known as the City Bowl, takes in many of Cape Town's attractions. The Castle of Good Hope was built between 1666 and 1679 and is one of the oldest European structures in Southern Africa. The South African Museum is a good old-fashioned place, with cases and cases of stuffed animals and bloodthirsty dioramas of dinosaurs. Exhibitions of indigenous cultures include some startlingly lifelike displays of San communities. If you see only one museum in Cape Town make it the District Six Museum, a much simpler place dedicated to residents of this formerly vibrant and now bulldozed community. The Victoria and Alfred Waterfront is to the north of the city centre. This area is unashamedly pitched at tourists but it avoids the glossy unreality of comparable port revamps. It's atmospheric, interesting and packed with restaurants, bars, music venues, shops and a great aquarium. This area kicks on late so head down anytime.  The Table Mountain cableway is such an obvious and popular attraction you might have difficulty convincing yourself it's worth the trouble and expense. It is. When it's clear, the views from the top are phenomenal and there are some excellent walks on the summit, especially in spring when the plants are flowering. The Kirstenbosch Botanic Gardens on the eastern side of Table Mountain are among the most beautiful in the world and are devoted almost exclusively to indigenous plants. A trip to Robben Island comes highly recommended: The island was a political prison until majority rule, and its most famous inmate was Nelson Mandela.  City Bowl is a good place to sniff out hostels, guesthouses and hotels. Sea Point, on the Atlantic Ocean, west of the centre, is another good place to stay. Observatory is a nice neighbourhood popular with students. It's east of the centre and a bit out of the way, but is good for budget to mid-range accommodation. It's also not a bad place to eat, if the shimmer and shine on the Waterfront gets a bit much.  
africa_south_africa_environment.html:  Environment  South Africa is a big wallop of a country, extending nearly 2000km from the Limpopo River in the north to Cape Agulhas in the south and nearly 1500km from Port Nolloth in the west to Durban in the east. Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique and Swaziland run from west to east along South Africa's northern border and Lesotho soars above the grassland towards the south-east. The country can be divided into three major parts: the vast interior plateau (the highveld), the Kalahari Basin, and a narrow coastal plain (the lowveld).  Its position just south of the Tropic of Capricorn makes South Africa a mostly dry and sunny place but the climate is moderated by its topography and the surrounding oceans. Basically, the farther east you go, the more handy your rain-gear becomes, but there are also damp pockets in the south-west, particularly around Cape Town. The coast north from the Cape becomes progressively drier and hotter, culminating in the desert region just south of Namibia. Along the south coast the weather is temperate, but the east coast becomes increasingly tropical the further north you go. When it gets too sticky, head for the highlands, which are pleasant even in summer. The north-eastern hump gets very hot and there are spectacular storms there in summer. In winter the days are sunny and warm.  When it comes to land mammals, South Africa hogs the superlatives: it's got the biggest (the African elephant), the smallest (the pygmy shrew), the tallest (the giraffe) and the fastest (the cheetah). The country is also home to the last substantial populations of black and white rhinos - with horns intact. You're most likely to encounter these critters in one of South Africa's national parks, but you should keep an eye out for lurking crocodiles in lowveld streams and rampaging hippos in the northern coastal regions. No slacker when it comes to birdlife, South Africa is home to the ostrich (the world's largest bird), the Kori bustard (the largest flying bird), as well as sunbirds, flamingoes and the sociable weaver birds who live in 'cities' of woven grass.  The region's flora is spectacular, with wildflowers from peaceful lilies to raging red-hot pokers in the grasslands, weird succulents blooming after spring rains, and one of the world's six floral kingdoms - the Cape Floral Kingdom - prettying up the Western Cape. Large areas in the north are covered by a savannah-type vegetation, characterised by acacias and thorn trees, and there are forest remnants along the southern coast and in the north-east.  
africa_south_africa_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Entry permits are issued free on arrival to visitors on holiday from many Commonwealth and most Western European countries, as well as Japan and the USA. If you aren't entitled to an entry permit, you'll need to get a visa (also free) before you arrive.Health risks: Malaria is mainly confined to the eastern half of South Africa, especially on the lowveld (coastal plain). Bilharzia is also found mainly in the east but outbreaks do occur in other places, so you should always check with knowledgeable local people before drinking water or swimming in it.Time: GMT/UTC plus two hoursElectricity: 220/230V (250V in Pretoria), 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Summer can be uncomfortably hot, especially in the lowveld. Higher-altitude areas are pleasantly warm over summer, but the mountains are rain- and mist-prone. The north-eastern regions can be annoyingly humid, but swimming on the east coast is a year-round proposition. Spring is the best time for wildflowers in the Northern Cape and Western Cape provinces. Winters are mild everywhere except in the highest country, where there are frosts and occasional snowfalls.  Holiday-makers stream out of the cities from mid-December to late January: resorts and national parks are heavily booked and prices on the coast can more than double. School holidays in April, July and September can clog up beaches and national parks.     Events  Public holidays underwent a dramatic shake-up after the 1994 elections. For example, the Day of the Vow, which celebrated the massacre of Zulus, has become the Day of Reconciliation (16 December). The officially ignored but widely observed Soweto Day, marking the student uprisings that eventually led to liberation, is now celebrated as Youth Day (16 June). Human Rights Day is held on the anniversary of the Sharpeville massacre (21 March).  The Festival of the Arts transforms Grahamstown in the Eastern Cape each July. As well as mainstream art, opera and theatre, there are fringe and student components to the festival, including theatre performed in many of the languages spoken in South Africa. The big Arts Alive Festival is held in Johannesburg in September and October. This is a great time to hear excellent music, on and off the official programme. There are also a lot of workshops exposing South Africans (and visitors) to the continent's rich cultures, so long denigrated during the apartheid years. The immensely popular Pretoria Show is held during the third week of August.  Apartheid-induced cultural boycotts starved South Africa's mad sports fans - and competitors - of competition. Any international cricket or rugby game is therefore a big event.    
africa_south_africa_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  At the mouth of the Umzimvubu River in Eastern Cape, Port St Johns is an idyllic little town with a dominant black population and a relaxed atmosphere. Artists and craftspeople have been escaping the cities to set up studios and workshops in the area, some of which you can visit. This is about as close as you'll come to the new rural South Africa. There's tropical vegetation, dramatic cliffs, great beaches and a good range of backpacker-style accommodation. Silaka Nature Reserve, a small coastal reserve just south of Port St Johns, is a hang-out for otter and white-breasted cormorant. There are also tidal rock pools and an estuary where aloes grow almost down to the water.  Port St Johns is accessible by bus from Durban via either Lusikisiki (the shortest way) or Umtata.  
africa_swaziland_activities.html:  Activities  If time is on your side, the best way to see Swaziland is by trekking, and several of the national parks offer excellent trails that are often generations old. Horse riding is another way to explore inaccessible parts of the country, and at Mlilwane Wildlife Sanctuary, not far from Mbabane, you can watch wildlife doing its thing from the back of a horse. White-water rafting, mountainbike riding and abseiling are growing in the popularity stakes.  
africa_swaziland_attractions.html:  Attractions  Mbabane lies at the northern end of the Ezulwini Valley amid the lush Dlangeni Hills, and apart from stocking up on information and supplies for trips farther afield, it doesn't offer much for the traveller. The main attractions in town are the Mall, the New Mall and Allister Miller St, the main street, named after the first European to be born there. You can do your banking and get your supplies around here.  Just to the west of the town centre is Swazi Plaza, a large, modern shopping complex that makes a good landmark and houses the tourist office and a further range of shops. The Mbabane Market, at the southern end of Allister Miller St, is worth a visit for its authentic crafts and its prices, cheaper than those in South Africa. Internet centres are mushrooming in Mbabane. You'll find htem at the Omni centre; in the post office upstairs; and in the mall.  Mbabane offers a good range of accommodation, from the caravan park 10km (6mi) away in the Ezulwini Valley through to church hostel accommodation and hotels and inns scattered around town.Several good restaurants serve Portuguese food and there are also excellent Italian and Indian restaurants in the city centre. You can get good and relatively cheap African food, and there are several steak houses.  
africa_swaziland_environment.html:  Environment  Swaziland is a little, landlocked kingdom, bounded on all sides by South Africa except for roughly 100km (60mi) of border with Mozambique in the east. Roughly rectangular, Swaziland is a little bigger than Connecticut but not as large as the diminutive nation states of Israel or El Salvador. The country supports a surprisingly wide range of ecological zones, from savannah scrub in the east to rainforest in the north-west, with patches of finbos, the 'fine bush' so renowned in South Africa. The mountainous border country with Mozambique is harsh and dry, and sharp mountains poke out of the highveld in the west. Nearly three quarters of Swazis work in agriculture, mainly at subsistence level, although the nation is not self sufficient in food.  Swaziland's natural resources are extremely well managed, and despite the country's size it lays claim to some of the best game reserves and national parks in southern Africa. Elephants, lions and rhinos have been reintroduced after being wiped out (rhinos had been absent for 70 years), and after some bloody battles between rangers and poachers, populations of both black and white rhinos are no longer critically endangered. The easiest wildlife park to visit is Mlilwane Wildlife Sanctuary in the Ezulwini Valley, not far from the capital, Mbabane, and if you're lucky you'll see hippopotami and crocodiles as well. Wildlife species are common in all the reserves, and the country has hundreds of bird species inhabiting relatively small pockets of bush, so bring your bird-spotting binoculars. In the east, sub-tropical woodland and swamps can get very steamy. Hardwood forests, which the logging industry is chipping away, dominate the western highlands.  It can bucket down in the western mountains over summer, although the mountains will generally remain cooler than the lowveld, which blisters as the mercury climbs past 40 C (104 F). October is the hottest month, and the rains begin in early December and continue through April. The lowveld tends to suffer extremes, with frosts and colder temperatures in winter (which falls over the northern hemisphere's summer). The eastern low veld is sub-tropical, mosquito ridden (watch out for malaria) and sticky, and can still be warm in mid-winter.  
africa_swaziland_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most people don't require a visa, apart from soem nationalists of the European Union who can get them free at the airport. Vaccination certificates are required if you have recently been in a yellow fever area.Health risks: Bilharzia and malariaTime: GMT/UTC plus 2 hoursElectricity: 220/230V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Winter, from June to August, is probably the best time, especially if you want to avoid those days when you could fry eggs on a tin hat. You'll get cooler temperatures (downright cold at night) in the eastern lowlands and warmer, drier weather in the highlands.If you want to see the two most important Swazi cultural ceremonies, go in August or September for the Umhlanga (Reed) Dance, or in late December or early January for the Incwala (the 'first fruits') ceremony.     Events  The Incwala (sometimes called Ncwala) or 'first fruits' ceremony takes place in December or January and is the most important in the Swazi calendar. Groups of bemanti (learned men) trek over the country, bringing back plants, river water and foam from the Indian Ocean to the Royal Kraal at Lobamba. Finally the king breaks his retreat, dances before the people and eats a pumpkin, a sign that Swazis can eat the new year's crops. In the Umhlanga held in August or September, marriageable young Swazi women journey from all over the kingdom to help repair the queen mother's home at Lobamba. The festival is a showcase of potential wives for the king and draws the nation together to remind people of their relationship and obligations to him.    
africa_swaziland_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Siteki is on the road to nowhere, but the town offers a cool respite in the Lebombo Mountains from the plains below. The former haunt of highwaymen and frontier troops, the town takes its name from Mbandzeni, great-grandfather of the present king, who gave his troops permission to marry here. The town's name means 'marrying place'. Siteki is renowned for its Inyanga and Sangoma School, a government school to train healers and diviners. It's a fascinating mix of botany, spiritualism and natural science, and you can visit the school if you arrange it in advance through Swazi Tourism in Mbabane. Not far from Siteki is the Muti-Muti Nature Reserve used extensively by practitioners at the Inyanga and Sangoma School for the variety of herbs used in their work ( muti means roughly 'magic' and 'folk medicine' in southern Africa). You can reach Siteki via a good paved road east from Manzini, a trip of about 60km (37mi) by car or bus.  
africa_tanzania_activities.html:  Activities   The Tanzania tourist activity is, of course, the safari - but it's entirely up to you whether you do it rough or smooth, or a bit of both. A trek to the top of Mt Kilimanjaro is the pinnacle of outdoor adventure, in more ways than one. There's some great floating to be had in hot-air balloons over the Serengeti. And swimming with dolphins is all the rage on the island of Zanzibar. Snorkelling and scuba diving is equally popular around the world-class coral reefs off nearby Pemba and Mafia islands.  
africa_tanzania_attractions.html:  Attractions  Dar es Salaam is Tanzania's premier city. The 'Haven of Peace' started life as a fishing village in the mid-19th century when the Sultan of Zanzibar got the urge to turn a creek (now a harbour) into a safe port and trading centre. Now it's a teeming metropolis of 1.5 million people where Arab dhows mingle with huge ocean-going vessels. Like most African cities, there are substantial contrasts between the various parts of the city. But while the busy central streets around the colourful Kariakoo Market and clock tower are a world away from the tree-lined boulevards of the government quarters to the north, there's no evidence of slums. The place is warm and salty with a heady cultural mix and none of the underlying aggro of Nairobi.  Dar's National Museum is next to the Botanical Gardens in the city centre. It features important archeological collections, especially the fossil discoveries of Zinjanthropus (Nutcracker Man), and the sordid history of the Zanzibar slave trade. About 10km (6mi) from the city centre, the Village Museum is also worth a look. It's a living breathing village of authentic dwellings from various parts of Tanzania. Traditional dances are performed here on the weekend. Oyster Bay, a beautiful (for now) stretch of tropical coastline, is the city's nearest beach.  Be aware that finding a place to stay in Dar can be difficult. It's not that there's a lack of hotels, it's just that they always seem to be full - this applies to the cheap, expensive and the in-between. So, whatever you do, don't pass up a vacant room because you don't like the curtains. Take the room and look for something better later. The city is Tanzania's major international arrival point for flights and there are plenty of airline offices here. The TAZARA train line runs between Dar es Salaam and Kapiri Mposhi (Zambia). The main bus station is at Ubungo Dar es Salaam, but buses to most parts of the country leave from a variety of places within the city.  
africa_tanzania_environment.html:  Environment  A land of plains, lakes and mountains with a narrow, low-lying coastal belt, Tanzania is East Africa's largest country.The bulk of the country is a highland plateau, some of it semi-desert and the rest savannah and scattered bush. The highest mountains - Meru (4556m/14,943ft) and Kilimanjaro (Africa's highest at 5895m/19,335ft) - are in the north-east along the border with Kenya.  Nowhere else on earth will you see wildebeest, gazelle, zebra and antelope in such enormous numbers - and Tanzania's characteristic plains make spotting wildlife easy. Blessed with some of the world's largest game reserves, the country also has one of the highest concentraions of elephant, buffalo, crocodile, hippo, hunting dog and chimpanzee.  Tanzania's widely varying geography accounts for its differing climatic conditions. The altitude of the high plateau considerably tempers what would otherwise be a tropical climate. In many places it can be quite cool at night. The coastal strip along the Indian Ocean and the offshore islands of Pemba, Zanzibar and Mfia have a hot, humid, tropical climate alleviated by sea breezes. Only on the mountain slopes of the north-east does the country enjoy an almost temperate climate for most of the year. If there's a time to avoid Tanzania, it's during the long rainy season from March to May when it rains almost every day. There's also a short rainy season from November to January.  
africa_tanzania_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors require a visa except citizens of some Commonwealth countries (Canada and the UK excepted), Scandinavian countries, the Republic of Ireland, Rwanda and Sudan. For these nationalities, a free visitor's pass, valid for one to three months, can be picked up at the point of entry (you'll be asked how long you plan to stay - three months is no problem). You will need proof of yellow fever vaccination if travelling to Zanzibar.Health: Yellow fever, malaria, bilharzia, tsetse fly, cholera, hepatitis, meningitis, and typhoid. HIV/AIDS is a serious risk, though not as prevalent as in Uganda. Tampons are imported and available only in the bigger towns and cities. Locally made sanitary napkins are generally plentiful.Time: GMT/UTC plus three hoursElectricity: 230VWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The standard tourist season is in January and February, when the hot, dry weather at this time of year is generally considered to be the most pleasant. But to catch the Serengeti at its best you want to avoid the dry season when virtually all the animals go on holiday to Kenya. Be prepared if you're heading into the big wet, as many roads - particularly on the south coast - can become too squishy to drive on.     Events  The biggest annual event in Tanzania begins at the Serengeti National Park near the Kenyan border, when huge herds of wildebeests head for greener pastures in Kenya. Starting in April each year, more than 2 million of these animals migrate across the Serengeti's southern plains accompanied by zebras, antelopes, gazelles, lions and tourists. Tanzanian Independence Day (December 9) somehow pales in significance.    
africa_tanzania_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Few travellers visit the south-eastern part of Tanzania adjacent to the Mozambique border, but this is where the famous makonde carvings originally came from (they've since been copied by artisans all over East Africa). It's also a beautiful part of the country. Getting there involves a series of bus journeys and overnight stays in the towns en route, but there's no shortage of transport. The first leg is a bus from Mbeya to Njombe, one of the highest and coldest parts of the country. Then it's on to the rowdy town of Songea, and beyond to the remote towns of Tunduru and Masai, on the Makonde Plateau itself. There's also a regular ferry between Dar es Salaam and Mtwara, near the plateau.  
africa_togo_activities.html:  Activities  The beaches around Lome were once Togo's main attraction, with thousands of mainly European tourists descending on them every holiday season. The beaches remain, but you won't see many tourists clogging them up these days. Bear in mind that using the area's beaches can be hazardous, as there's a strong undertow and some locals use the sands as their toilet. Your best bet is to take a cab and head for the secluded and protected shores at Robinson's Plage, 9km (6mi) east of the town centre. As for swimming pools, try the H tel Sarakawa's Olympic-sized dip - the biggest in West Africa.   Hiking and camping are possible throughout the country, though oddly enough not always in the national parks. Check with the rangers before you set out. The flattish woodland savannah of La Fosse aux Lions makes for some lovely hiking excursions in the far northern reaches of the country, just south of Dapaong.  
africa_togo_attractions.html:  Attractions  Before the country's political troubles of the 1990s, Lome was the pearl of West Africa. Nearly everyone who swept through the region stopped in Lome for a few days at the beach. French and German tourists, especially, would flock in during the winter, living it up in the city's five-star hotels and fine restaurants. But travellers are fairly scarce these days, and many businesses are just getting by. Though a few hotels still do a brisk business, most tourist facilities now bide their time in a semi-deserted ambience. There are a few Internet cafes opening up in Lome with cheap and reliable connections. It's the only place in Togo you'll find public access to the Internet.  On the Place de l'Independence stands a gilded bronze statue of the man behind the muscle, President Eyadema, and another of his mother; both were removed during the civil disturbances of 1991. The Palais des Congres was previously the headquarters of Eyadema's party. Behind the Palais, the National Museum houses a collection of historical artefacts, pottery and woodcarvings.  For a livelier tour, the Grand Marche in the town centre is a three-storey hive of buying and selling. Inside, you'll find everything from modern manufactured goods to traditional African foods, arts and textiles. For batiks, wooden sculptures and leather work, the best place to look is the quiet Village Artisanal, where you can ogle the artists at work. There are also artisan stalls near the H tel du Golfe, but be prepared to fend off the touts if you drop by.  The Marche des Feticheurs, 8km (5mi) west of the centre, has a somewhat spookier collection, including potions, dried animal organs and other items used in traditional medicine. It's become something of a tourist trap, but it's still worth a look.  
africa_togo_environment.html:  Environment  At the southern end of the African continent's western bulge, Togo sits on the Gulf of Guinea, surrounded by Burkina Faso to the north, Benin to the east and Ghana to the west. A bit smaller than the US state of West Virginia and twice the size of Belgium, Togo's a long, skinny strip of land, nearly five times as long (540km/335mi) as it is wide (110km/70mi). From the sandy lagoons along its 55km (35mi) of coastline, the country rises northward to rolling hills and plateaus covered in deciduous forest.  Central Togo is the location of the country's major national park, the For t de Fazao; the Parc National de la Keran is farther north, near Kara. The hills around Kpalime are excellent for growing coffee, while those around Atakpame serve better for their views.  Some of the animals you might see (though their numbers are few) are hippo, giraffe, waterbuck, duiker, oribi, buffalo, bush pig, wart hog, hyena, vervet, baboon and, if you're lucky, perhaps an elephant or lion. Bird species include stork, crane and marabou. Togo's not exactly rich with protected areas, and the years have not been kind to its animal population.  From December to January, the dusty, dry harmattan wind blows down from the deserts to the north. Togo's rainy season lasts from April to July, though short periods of rain are common in October and November. The country's hottest period is mid-February through mid-April.  
africa_togo_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Everyone except nationals of the member countries of ECOWAS must have a visa to visit Togo. Proof of yellow-fever vaccination is required for entry at the airport, though it's not usually checked at land crossings.Health risks: Yellow fever, cholera, malaria, schistosomiasisTime: GMT/UTCElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Generally speaking, the choicest time to visit Togo is during the cooler period from November through February. The period from March to May can be a real scorcher, and it's immediately followed by a rainy season that lasts until October. December to the end of February is the dry season, but the skies are often dusty with the harmattan winds. If you're sticking close to the coastline, December to March is the area's 'tourist season,' such as it is (which it isn't, really, these days). Crowds are thicker than in other seasons but still aren't much to fret over.     Events  If you're in Togo during the second week in September, the Guin Festival in Glidji is not to be missed. Beginning that Thursday, the townspeople celebrate with four days of parading, dancing, drinking and other rituals both sacred and profane. Voodoo is the local religion, so people going into trances is a common, albeit bizarre, sight.   Public Holidays1 January - New Year's Day13 January - Liberation Day24 January - Day of VictoryMarch or April - Easter holidays, Ras as-Sana, Tabaski27 April - Independence Day1 May - Labour DayMay or June - Ascention, Whit MondayJune or July - Eid al-Moulid21 June15 August - Assumption1 November - All Saints' Day25 December - ChristmasDecember or January - Eid al-Fitrback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to TogoTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
africa_togo_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The For t de Fazao lies in the beautiful Malfacassa mountains of central Togo, an area of thickly wooded savannah with a variety of waterfalls, cliffs and rocky hills. Most people come for the wildlife, but the park's been so poorly managed that your chances of seeing anything other than birds and monkeys are slim. If you're lucky, you might catch a glimpse of a waterbuck, duiker, hippo, oribi, buffalo, bush pig, wart hog, hyena, vervet, baboon and - if you're very lucky - maybe an elephant or lion.  Adjoining Fazao is the Malfacassa Zone de Chassse, an excellent area for hiking. From the mountain tops, you can see the countryside roll away for kilometres, and there's a better chance of seeing elephants, especially during the dry season. Two things to watch out for: hungry lions and hunters in the dry season. In the rainy season you won't get shot, but slogging through the muddy forests can be a challenge to your patience. Fazao-Malfacassa lies some 330km (205mi) north of Lome, a seven hour trip by bus.  
africa_tunisia_activities.html:  Activities  Tunisia's best beaches are in the north around Ghar el-Melh, Tabarka and Bizerte - much better than the crowded ones at the resorts. The beaches farther south look good on paper, but they're not so great for swimming. The best of that lot is at Aghir.  Tunisia is just waking up to the possibility of trekking. The forest of the Kroumirie Mountains around 'Ain Draham have enormous potential, but decent maps have yet to be drawn. More popular right now, camel trekking is best arranged out of Zaafrane, 12km (8mi) south-west of Douz, where you can arrange anything from an hour's ride to an eight-day oasis hop. If this hooks you on the desert's charms, dune skiing and land yachting can be arranged in certain areas.   Bird watching is popular in Tunisia, although the country has relatively few resident species. It's an important stopover for migratory birds, making spring and autumn the best times to go. Ichkeul National Park in the north is a prime site.   Ballooning and hydroplane flights are two relatively new options for getting above it all that can be arranged from Tozeur and Aghir, respectively.  
africa_tunisia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Compared with most mega-cities elsewhere in the world, Tunis comes across as little more than a large country town. The city centre is compact and easy to navigate, with almost everything important to travellers within the medina and the compact ville nouvelle.  The medina is the historical and cultural heart of modern Tunis and a great place to get a feel for life in the city. Built during the 7th century AD, it lost its status as Tunis Central when the French took over and raised their ville nouvelle around the turn of the 20th century. One of the oldest of the medina's sights, the Zitouna Mosque was rebuilt in the 9th century on the site of the original 7th century structure. Its builders recycled 200 columns from the ruins of Roman Carthage for the central prayer hall. Modestly dressed non-Muslims are allowed in as far as the courtyard. Your nose will help you translate the name of the nearby Souq el-Attarine - the Perfume Makers' Souq - where the shops are full of aromatic oils and spices. To the west, the Mosque of Youssef Dey was the first Ottoman-style mosque to be built in Tunis (1616). The nearby Souq el-Berka is where slaves were sold by Muslim corsairs.  Also in the medina, the Tourbet el-Bey is a huge mausoleum that houses the remains of many Husseinite beys, princesses, ministers and advisors - the caretaker is a keen tour-giver. Not far off, the Dar Ben Abdallah Museum houses the Centre for Popular Arts & Traditions, where the exhibits seem almost lacklustre when seen against the building's majestic backdrop. Also in the area is the Dar el-Haddad, one of the medina's oldest dwellings. The medina was added to the UN's World Heritage List in 1981.  The streets of the ville nouvelle are lined with old French buildings replete with wrought-iron railings and louvred windows, lending it a very European feel that's heightened by a number of sidewalk cafes and patisseries. After ogling the colonial architecture, don't skip a visit to the Cathedral of St Vincent de Paul. Incorporated in its design are an extraordinarily bizarre collection of clashing styles - Gothic, Byzantine, North African.  One not-to-be-missed sight outside of central Tunis is the Bardo Museum, housed in the former Bardo Palace, official residence of the Husseinite beys. Inside, the collection is broken down into sections that cover the Carthaginian, Roman, early Christian and Arab-Islamic eras. The Roman collection contains one of the finest collection of Roman mosaics and statuary anywhere. The museum is located about 4km (2mi) west of the city centre, an easy taxi or tram ride.  
africa_tunisia_environment.html:  Environment  Looking like a well-driven wedge cleaving Algeria and Libya, Tunisia is dwarfed by its African neighbors, though it's not much smaller than most Mediterranean European nations. The Mediterranean laps at roughly 40% of the country's border, with Sardinia and Corsica lying directly to the north and Malta and Sicily off to the north-east.  Northern Tunisia has a typical Mediterranean climate, with hot, dry summers (June-August) and mild, wet winters (December-February). Tunis' high temperatures top out around 32 C (90 F) and drop no lower than 6 C (40 F). The mountains of the north-west occasionally get snow, while the farther south you go, the hotter and drier it gets. Annual rainfall ranges from 1000mm (40in) in the north, down to 150mm (6in) in the south, although some Saharan areas go without rain for years on end. Tunisia's lowest point is at Chott el-Gharsa, at 17m (56ft) below sea level, and its highest point is at Jebel Chambi at 1544m (1785ft).  Rainfall dictates what grows where in Tunisia. The Kroumirie Mountains in the north-west receive the lion's share of the sprinkling and are densely forested with evergreen holm and cork oak. The strawberry tree is another common sight, named for its striking reddish fruit, which young boys can be seen hawking at the roadside in December. The trees are covered with dense panicles of fragrant white flowers in autumn. The small plains of the Tell contain small pockets of Aleppo pine, while Tunisia's last remnant of pre-Saharan savanna is found in the Acacia raddiana forest of Bou Hedma National Park. The treeless plains of the south support large areas of esparto grass, while farther south the vegetation gives way altogether to desert and the occasional oasis.  The fauna of Tunisia has had a hard time of it over the centuries. The war elephants employed by Hannibal and the Christian-fed lions of Rome, both now extinct, were two early casualties of foreign intervention. French hunters also trophy-shot a share of species to the brink of extinction, including Barbary deer and a few species of gazelle, though these are recovering now under government protection. Two antelope species, the addax and the oryx, have been reintroduced to Bou Hedma National Park, as have ostriches and maned mouflon (wild sheep). In the forests of the north, look for the reclusive wild boar, mongooses, porcupines and genets (spectacular arboreal cat-like carnivores). The mammals of the south include gerbils (they had to come from somewhere), foxes, hares and the squirrel-like suslik. The nocturnal radar-eared fennec - once common in the deserts - is now extremely rare in the wild. A relative of Australia's goanna and Indonesia's komodo dragon, the desert varanid is relatively common, as are horned vipers and scorpions.  Tunisia's feathered population is impressive, with more than 200 bird species on record. Sightings include migrating storks, hawks and eagles in spring and autumn, colourful bee-eaters and rollers, and a host of wading birds and waterfowl. There are no endemic species to draw the hardcore birder; rather, Tunisia is a place to enjoy a good variety of birds in a mild climate within comfortable distance from towns and other attractions. Ichkeul National Park - easily accessed from Tunis and the northern resorts - is a haven for water birds of all types.  
africa_tunisia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most visitors do not require visas for stays of up to three or four months. Israeli nationals are not allowed into the country.Health risks: Malaria, yellow feverTime: GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity: 220/110V, 50HzWeights & measures:Metric When to Go  Low season in Tunisia is from January to February, when hotel rates are down and the weather's cool and rainy. During the sweaty high season, from June to August, expect hotel rates to be up, car rentals to be scarce and the markets and museums to teem with foreign visitors. You won't want to do much strenuous activity during these months.     Events  The Islamic (or Hjira) calendar is a full 11 days shorter than the Gregorian (western) calendar, so public holidays and festivals fall 11 days earlier each year. In April for the next few years, Ras as-Sana is the Islamic celebration of the new year. Moulid an-Nabi celebrates the prophet Mohammed's birthday around June or July. These celebrations include parades in the city streets with lights, feasts, drummers and special sweets. Ramadan is celebrated during the ninth month of the Islamic calendar (presently in December), commemorating the month when the Qur'an was revealed to Mohammed. Out of deference, the faithful take neither food nor water until after sunset each day. At the end of Ramadan ( 'Eid al-Fitr), the fasting breaks with much celebration and gaiety.   'Eid al-Adha is the time of the pilgrimage to Mecca, which each Muslim is expected to make at least once in their lifetime. Streets are decorated with coloured lights and children play in their best clothes. The ritual of Mahmal is performed in each village as passing pilgrims are given carpets and shrouds to take on their journey. This all happens in March.  In terms of secular festivals, July and August are the months to remember. The main event on the Tunis calendar is the Carthage International Festival, which fills those months with music, dance and theatre performances at Carthage's heavily restored Roman theatre. The El-Jem International Symphonic Music Festival is held every July. The Dougga Festival of classical drama also takes place in July and August in, where else, Dougga. After the summer heat dies down, the biennial Carthage International Film Festival (concentrating on Middle Eastern and African cinema) takes place in October in odd-numbered years.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 20 March - Independence Day 21 March - Youth Day 9 April - Martyr's Day 1 May - Labour Day 25 July - Republic Day 3 August - Public Holiday 13 August - Women's Day 15 October - Evacuation Day 7 November - Anniversary of Ben Ali's Takeover.back to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to TunisiaTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
africa_tunisia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The port of Bizerte, 65km (40mi) north of Tunis, is the largest city in Northern Tunisia. It sees very few tourists, which is one reason why it's worth a visit. There are a few decent beaches near town, but the main attraction is the architecture of the unspoiled traditional quarter of the old port.  The enormous kasbah is the most impressive structure in the old town, with its massive walls towering over the northern side of the entrance to the old harbour. Originally a Byzantine fort built in the 6th century AD, the present fort was built by the Ottomans in the 17th century. The ksibah (small fort) forms the southern bastion of the harbour defences built by the Byzantines and has also been modified over the centuries. It now houses a small but good oceanographic museum.  The Place Bouchoucha - more of a thoroughfare than a square - lies at the heart of the old Ottoman town, flanked by the old port to the east and the medina to the west. The area houses some lively fish markets; the Great Mosque, built in 1652 with a striking octagonal minaret; and the beautifully inlaid Youssef Dey fountain, built ten years before the mosque. The so-called Spanish Fort overlooks the town from the hill north of the medina - it's actually Turkish and was built around 1570 AD.  
africa_uganda_activities.html:  Activities  The Ruwenzori Mountains in south-western Uganda offer some of the best trekking in East Africa and are almost as popular with travellers as Kilimanjaro and Mt Kenya, though definitely harder to climb. Be prepared for a five-day trek and take warm, waterproof clothing. Within the Bwindi National Park in the south-west, the Waterfall Trail, Muzabijiro Loop Trail and Munyaga River Trail are three beautiful walks of varying degrees of difficulty. The water around the Ssese Islands south of Kampala is clean, cool and perfect for swimming. On the Nile River, white-water rafting is an unforgettable experience; most rafting operators are based near Jinja, a town at the confluence of the Nile and Lake Victoria.  
africa_uganda_attractions.html:  Attractions  A modern, bustling capital, Kampala suffered a great deal during the years of civil strife. In the decade or so since President Museveni came to power, the city has gone from a looted shell to a thriving city befitting the capital of one of the most rapidly developing countries in Africa. The electricity works, clean water comes out of the taps, damaged buildings are now habitable, many new ones have gone up, and the shops and markets are once again well stocked. These days, Kampala even has casinos, nightclubs and fancy restaurants. And it's safe.  Kampala is said to be built on seven hills, but the city centre is on just one of them, Nakasero. The top half of the hill is a garden city of wide, quiet avenues lined with large houses behind imposing fences. This is where you'll find the embassies, international aid organisations, upmarket hotels, government offices and the rich. The bottom half is a completely different world, composed of shops, small businesses, budget hotels, cheap restaurants, street markets, Hindu temples, and the bus station and taxi parks. The streets in this congested area overflow with people, battered old cars, lottery ticket sellers and pavement stalls offering everything from rubber stamps to radio repairs.  If Kampala's streets don't put a spring in your step, there are a few standard attractions. The Uganda Museum's most interesting feature is its collection of traditional musical instruments, which you're allowed to play. The Kasubi Tombs are on Kasubi Hill, a royal palace enclosure first built in 1881. This is where you'll find the huge traditional reed and bark-cloth buildings of the kabakas (kings) of the Baganda people. The Uganda Wildlife Authority Office, a few kilometres north-east of the city centre, makes bookings to see the gorillas in outlying Bwindi National Park.  
africa_uganda_environment.html:  Environment  Uganda occupies a chunk of eastern Africa about the size of the United Kingdom. It's bordered by Sudan to the north, Kenya to the east, Lake Victoria, Tanzania and Rwanda to the south, and Congo (formerly Zaire) to the west.  With its relatively low population density and scarcity of wildlife (the latter courtesy of the decimation that occurred during the bad old days), Uganda lacks many of the environmental pressures faced by other countries in East Africa. The national parks and wilderness areas are generally in good shape, and conditions are ideal for the native animals to re-establish themselves. The highest density of primates in the world live in Kibale National Park, while Bwindi National Park is one of the last remaining habitats of the mountain gorillas.  About 25% of Uganda's land is fertile and arable, making the country quite capable of producing a food surplus. Lake Victoria and the Victoria Nile, which flows through much of the country, create one of the best irrigated areas of Africa. However, the growing problem of water hyacinth threatens the ecology of Lake Victoria and the livelihood of the people who live by its shores. This aquatic weed floats in large 'islands' on the lake surface and grows so prolifically that it chokes waterways and stops light from penetrating the lake surface, making it impossible for fish to live beneath it.  The land varies from the lush and fertile shores of Lake Victoria in the southeast, to semi-desert in the northeast. Uganda is fairly flat, with mountains only in the extreme east (Mt Elgon), far west (Ruwenzori Mountains) and the beautiful south-west, close to the Rwandan border. Though flat, the country is high, with an average altitude of over 1000m (3280ft).  The bulk of the country enjoys a tropical climate tempered by altitude. The hottest months are from December to February, when it gets up to 29 C (84 F). The rainy seasons in the south are from April to May and October to November, the wettest month being April. In the north the wet season is from April to October.  
africa_uganda_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of most countries do require visas. All nationalities require an International Health Certificate showing proof of a yellow fever vaccination within the past 10 years.Health risks: Bilharzia, HIV/AIDS, trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness), malaria, yellow feverTime: GMT/UTC plus three hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit Uganda is late December to late February, as the weather at this time of year is generally dry (though hot). A close second is the mid-June to mid-August period. Don't even think about trekking outside of these dry months.     Events  Uganda celebrates many Christian holidays, including Christmas, Easter and Good Friday. The Muslim population honors Islamic holidays, which follow the Muslim calendar. Hari Raya Puasa, the sighting of the new moon, signifies the first day of the Muslim calendar and the end of Ramadan, the fasting month. Women's Day takes place throughout the country in early March. There are also several holidays associated with independence and events during the civil wars: NRM Anniversary Day is 26 January; Martyrs' Day is 3 June; Heroes' Day is 9 June; and Independence Day is 9 October.    
africa_uganda_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This group of 84 islands lies off the north-western shores of Lake Victoria. The islands escaped the ravages of Uganda's civil wars and remain largely unspoiled. Their inhabitants, known as the Basese, form a distinct tribal group, with their own language, culture and folklore. They live primarily by catching fish and farming coffee, sweet potato, cassava, yams and bananas.  The main islands of Buggala, Bufumira, Bukasa, Bubeke and Khome are hilly and, where not cultivated, forested with a wide variety of trees. Animals you're likely to come across include monkey, hippo, crocodile and many different types of bird. Other than wildlife viewing, the Ssese Islands are a good place to fish, swim or just lie back in the sun.  The islands, which lie just south of Kampala, are connected to the mainland by ferries that run from Bukakata (about 80km/50mi south-west of Kampala via Masaka) to Buggala Island, and by fishing boats from Port Bell (immediately southeast of Kampala) to Buggala.  
africa_zambia_activities.html:  Activities  The safari has come a long way since the days of moustachioed men with big guns and pith helmets; today you're much more likely to see giant telephoto lenses sticking out of a 4WD. Zambia has many excellent safari opportunities, mainly in its great national parks, with endless opportunities for photos. Most popular are wildlife-viewing tours by open-top vehicle. Unusual in Africa, night drives are also permitted, and open up a whole new world. Zambia is also famous for walking safaris, where you leave behind all modern trappings and follow an experienced ranger. Nothing beats being on foot in the African bush for sharpening the senses and heightening the wilderness experience! But it's not all big mammals - bird-watching is also superb in Zambia. Standing at the crossroad between east, central and Southern Africa, the country boasts a wide and varied range of species - well over 700 at the last count. All the major national parks (South Luangwa, Lower Zambezi and Kafue) are excellent for bird-watching.  Zambia, in particular Livingstone, has a mind-boggling array of adventure activities to choose from. The Zambezi River offers outstanding canoeing and white-water rafting, while the bridge and gorge downstream of Victoria Falls offers bungee jumping, abseiling, rock climbing and hiking. For the rafters, the rapids below Victoria Falls are among the world's wildest - and safest - due to the deep water, steep canyon walls and lack of mid-stream rocks. Having said that, most rafters take a swim during their trip. Requiring no effort whatsoever, but still very popular, are rides on the river in larger boats with decks, rails, a bar and many other facilities; an evening boat tour with a few drinks is most popular - known locally as a booze cruise.  
africa_zambia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Lusaka is a sprawling, swollen city that has grown too fast and has little appeal for travellers, though it is the capital and you're likely to spend some time in it. Lusaka didn't even exist before the 20th century, and until the 1930s it was just a small, sleepy agricultural centre. Although it became the capital in 1931, rapid growth didn't occur until the 1960s. Since then, most of Lusaka's middle class have headed for the suburbs, leaving a population consisting mainly of civil servants, diplomats and poor Zambians. Downtown is in the western part of the city; the government district lies a few blocks east.  The city is surprisingly rich in galleries featuring local artists. Among the best are the Henry Tayali Visual Arts Gallery at the Showgrounds a few kilometres east of the centre, the Mpala Gallery about halfway between the two, and the sculpture garden at the Garden House Hotel, a few kilometres west of the centre. Just north-west of the centre is the Zintu Community Museum, which exhibits traditional arts and crafts. The other major attraction in the capital is bustling open-air Kamwala Market, a few blocks south of the centre.  The capital is in the southern part of the country, about 100km (62mi) from the Zimbabwe border. It's accessible by air, rail and bus.  
africa_zambia_environment.html:  Environment  Land-locked Zambia is one of Africa's most eccentric legacies of colonialism. Shaped like a crumpled figure-eight, its borders don't correspond to any tribal or linguistic area. It's bordered by Angola to the west, the Congo (Za re) to the west and north, Tanzania to the northeast, Malawi to the east, and Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Botswana and Namibia to the south. Zambia sits on an undulating plateau, sloping to the south. Areas of high ground include the Copperbelt Highlands and the Nyika Plateau on the border with Malawi, which contains Mwanda Peak (2150m/7050ft), the country's highest point. Zambia's main rivers are the Zambezi, which rises in the west of the country and forms the border between Zambia and Namibia, Botswana and Zimbabwe; the Kafue, which rises in the highlands between Zambia and the Congo (Za re); and the Luangwa, which flows from the north into the Zambezi.  Zambia's great wildlife parks are home to a very wide range of mammals and birds. Aside from the marquee names like lions, elephants, hippos, buffalos, zebras and giraffes, commonly sighted species include warthogs, mongooses, honey badgers, baboons, African striped weasels and Lichtenstein's hartebeests. Zambia's varied birdlife includes ostriches, hornbills, woodhoopoes and starlings. Most of Zambia is moist savanna woodland, where broadleaf deciduous trees grow far enough apart to allow grasses and other plants to grow on the woodland floor. In the wetter north, bushveld covers much of the drier southwest. In drier areas, especially the valleys of the Zambezi and Luangwa you'll see sprawling branches of stout baobab trees, some thousands of years old.  Along with much of southern Africa, Zambia's altitude creates a temperate climate. There are three distinct seasons: cool and dry from May to August, hot and dry from September to October, and rainy between November and April (summer).  
africa_zambia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most visitors need visas, which are good for three months, plus an International Health Certificate showing proof of a yellow fever vaccination within the past 10 years.Health risks: Cholera, malaria, polio, typhoid, yellow feverTime: GMT/UTC plus two hoursElectricity: 220/240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  If you want to spot wildlife, August to October is the best time to visit, though it gets into the low 30s C (high 80s F) during the day by the end of that period, especially in low-lying areas - which includes the major national parks. If you want cooler weather and greener landscapes, visit during the cool, dry months of May to August. During the November to April rainy season most of the national parks are closed, and animals are harder to spot because of the lush vegetation, although the lodges that remain open offer very attractive rates. Getting around at this time is also harder as many rural roads become impassable rivers of mud. Zambia is an excellent place for bird-watchers; November to December is the best time, although conditions are good year-round.     Events  Zambia's most important public holidays are New Year's Day (1 January), Youth Day (second Monday in March), Workers Day (1 May), Heroes' Day, Unity Day (first Monday and Tuesday in July), Farmer's Day (first Monday in August) and Independence Day (24 October). Zambia also celebrates the anniversary of the founding of the Organization of African Unity on African Freedom Day (25 May).  The Zambian people celebrate many traditional festivals, although for tourists these are sometimes hard to pin down, and dates and even locations can vary from year to year. Perhaps Zambia's best-known festival is the Kuomboka, held near the town of Mongu in Western Zambia towards the end of the rainy season in late March or early April. The Lozi chief and his family are paddled in massive war-canoes across the Zambezi floodplains from their palace at Lealui to Limulunga, where the royal residence is high enough to evade the rising waters. In late February, the N'Cwala festival is held at Mutenguleni, 15km (10mi) southwest of Chipata, during which the chief of the Ngoni people samples the year's first fresh produce and commemorates the Ngoni's entrance into Zambia in 1835. The event is marked by feasts, music and some of the best dancing in the country.  In early March, anglers set their poles for the Zambia National Fishing Competition held on Lake Tanganyika.    
africa_zambia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This vast park is Zambia's largest, home to grassland plains stretching for hundreds of kilometres, forests lining the banks of the Kafue River, and critters big and small everywhere you look. Kafue is prime safari territory, with the lions, leopards, elephants, rhinos, antelopes, zebras and even ultra-rare yellow-backed duikers to prove it. One highlight is the Busanga Plains at the northern end of the park. This 750 sq km (290 sq mi) area floods from March to May, when it becomes a giant bathing ground for thousands of hippos and millions of birds. Another good bird-watching spot is Lake Itezhi-Tezhi, where herons, spoonbills and many other waterbirds roost.  There are a number of places to stay in the park, including camp sites, chalets and lodges. Most are along the Kafue River. The park is about 200km (125mi) west of Lusaka and is accessible by car, though the roads are generally horrible and most visitors who can afford it fly in by chartered plane.  
africa_zanzibar_activities.html:  Activities  Few venture to the Zanzibar Archipelago without whetting their appetite for goggling at pristine coral reefs up close. Diving and snorkelling around Zanzibar, Pemba and the smaller islands is among the best in the world. For those still feeling dust-clogged after weeks on the road, languishing on one of the many beaches for a few days is a fine antidote.  When your olfactory senses tire of all things fishy, take a spice tour to bamboozle the senses. The archipelago still produces cloves, black pepper, cardamom, cinnamon, nutmeg, breadfruit, jackfruit, vanilla and lemongrass. Those interested in architecture will enjoy meandering around old Stone Town, admiring the Arabic, African and colonial buildings. And if you're keen to swot up on Swahili, language courses are held in Zanzibar Town, the very area from which the language originated.  
africa_zanzibar_attractions.html:  Attractions  The king of the archipelago, Zanzibar island is an unusual melange of the Africa of the imagination, conservative Muslim tendencies and coastal glamour, and will enthral most travellers. The most interesting part of Zanzibar Town, on the western side of the island, is Stone Town. Its name may be unimaginative, but Stone Town is an enticing place to wander away a languid afternoon. Meander through the narrow alleyways and let your jaw drop at the town's unique architecture that fuses Arabic, Indian, European and African influences (and rest assured not all the buildings are made of stone). The elegant Beit el-Ajaib (House of Wonders) was rebuilt after the British made their displeasure felt and bombed the area in the late-19th century; its enormous doors are said to be the largest in East Africa. Beit al-Sahel (Palace Museum) served as the Sultan's residence until 1964 when the dynasty was overthrown. It's now a museum devoted to the era of the Zanzibar sultanate. The Old Fort, a massive, bastioned structure built by Omani Arabs on the site of a Portuguese chapel is also worth a peek. It houses the Zanzibar Cultural Centre, has an open-air theatre, an art gallery and a cafe. There are daily flights and ferries between Dar es Salaam, on the mainland, and Zanzibar.  For amazing wildlife snooping, Jozani Forest is home to rare red colobus monkeys, Sykes monkeys, bushbabies, Ader's duikers, hyraxes and more species of butterflies and birds than you can point your camera at. The forest is about 35km (22mi) southeast of Zanzibar Town, and can be reached by bus or chartered taxi.  
africa_zanzibar_environment.html:  Environment  Tanzania is a republic in East Africa, on the Indian Ocean. The archipelago is to the east of the mainland. Zanzibar island is about the same size as London; Pemba is the second main island in the archipelago, and is similar in size to Paris (all similarities end there). Pemba is very fertile, and one of the world's leading producers of cloves. Myriad little islands surround Zanzibar and Pemba, often disappearing at high tide.  There are no national parks within the archipelago, however, wildlife such as monkeys, civet cats and mongooses are common, and birdlife is prolific. Deforestation is a major headache for the archipelago, with about 95% of the tropical forest that once covered Zanzibar and Pemba now gone. The only remaining areas of forests are at Jozani (Zanzibar), Ngezi and Msitu Mkuu (Pemba) - all of which are protected reserves - as well as some patches of primary forest on islands near Pemba. Dynamite fishing poses a serious environmental threat, although progress has been made in halting this destructive practice.  The archipelago's climate is tropical and high in sticky-shirt humidity. Avoid pulling ugly faces from December to March, when the north-east trade winds blow, and again from May to October, when the south-east trade winds rage. You can, however, make faces during the 'long rains', which fall from mid-March to May, but don't wear white T-shirts because it can rain virtually every day; the 'short rains' fall between November, December and sometimes into January.  
africa_zanzibar_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are required by almost all visitors to Tanzania, and should be obtained before arriving in Tanzania. If you are arriving from a country without a Tanzanian embassy or consulate, visas are issued at Dar es Salaam international airport and at Zanzibar airport. Tourist visas are valid for three months from the date of issue.Health risks: Malaria, hepatitis, typhoid, yellow fever, bilharzia, tsetse fly, cholera, meningitis. HIV/AIDS is also a serious risk.Time: GMT/UTC plus three hoursTelephone Area Code: 255Electricity: 230 volts, 50 Hz ACWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The delights of the Zanzibar Archipelago are irresistibly alluring year-round. That said, the coolest and driest time to visit is between late June and October, but this is also when the place is bulging at the seams and air fares are at their zenith. From late December to February or early March temperatures are a tad higher, but there are fewer tourists to contend with. If you decide to brave the main rainy season (from March to June), you'll save on accommodation and transport costs, not to mention elbowroom.     Events  Although Muslim holidays make for heady celebrations in the Zanzibar Archipelago, you may feel like you're fasting even when it's not Ramadan - many restaurants close down during these times. Coinciding with the end of the hajj in February, Eid al-Kebir commemorates God's change of heart: Abraham was about to sacrifice his son as per God's command when the almighty decided, at the last moment, that a ram would do instead. Ramadan, the annual 30-day fast when adherents do not eat or drink from sunrise to sunset, and Eid al-Fitr, the feast that marks the end of Ramadan, are also celebrated in style. The precise dates of events, according to the Islamic calendar, are known only shortly before they fall, and depend upon the sighting of the moon.  July is the fashionable month for non-Muslim festivals. Consider lobbing in for the Zanzibar Cultural Festival, held annually around mid-July, the Zanzibar International Film Festival, also held in July, and Mwaka Kogwa (marking the Shirazi New Year or Nairuzim), held in late July.    
africa_zanzibar_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  In the southwest of Zanzibar island, near Fumba to the west and Unguja Ukuu to the east, Menai Bay is a sea-turtle breeding area and also encompasses several coral reefs, heaps of marine life and dense mangrove forests. Snorkelling and dhow trips are offered. Day-trips can be organised from Fumba village, southeast of the airport.  
africa_zimbabwe_activities.html:  Activities  If you're anything like the average visitor to Zimbabwe, you're planning at least one foray into the bush to encounter the endearing faces you've come to know through years of nature documentaries. Safaris range from heading off into the wilderness with stout boots and a long lens to swanky light plane and 4WD combos. But animal-spotting is only the first and most obvious of the adrenaline hits possible in Zimbabwe.  In the Victoria Falls area alone you can go white-water rafting, kayaking, microlighting, parachuting, horse-riding, cycling and even do the world's highest bungee jump. And that's before lunch. The Mavuradonha Wilderness and the national parks of the Eastern Highlands offer superb hiking, the Kariba area offers sailing, house-boating and other water activities and the middle Zambezi is ideal for long-distance canoeing. Zimbabwe is one of the world's least expensive and least crowded golfing venues, and if you're interested in such novelties as warthogs rooting around on the fairways and crocodiles in the water hazards, it's ideal.  
africa_zimbabwe_attractions.html:  Attractions  Harare, with a population of over 1.6 million, is the capital and heart of the nation in nearly every respect. The city was bequeathed a distinctly European flavour by its colonisers, and it continues as Zimbabwe's showpiece city and centre of commerce, with high-rise buildings, traffic and all their attendant bustle. Having said that, violent crime is fairly common and visitors should never walk in the city alone and should keep off the streets altogether at night unless using an official taxi.  The National Gallery of Zimbabwe is the final word on African art and material culture. Its displays range from earthy African art to colonial and post-colonial painting and sculpture. Harare Gardens, the city's largest park, has music at the bandstand on weekends, and an island-like stand of rainforest which contains a miniature model of Victoria Falls and the Zambezi Gorges. Much of Harare's activity focuses on Mbare musika, 5km (3mi) south of the centre, Zimbabwe's largest market and busiest bus terminal. The Kopje, a granite hill rising above the south-west corner of central Harare, is a great place to go for views of the city.  Central Harare is compact, making it a breeze to get around on foot. Cheaper shops and hotels and much of Harare's nightlife is concentrated just west of the trendy central shopping area. The Kopje area is the best place to look for a pungwe, an all night drinking and dancing performance by top musicians  
africa_zimbabwe_environment.html:  Environment  Zimbabwe, a landlocked blob with a western spike, is roughly the same size as the UK if you chucked an extra Scotland in. It's in south-eastern Africa, bordered by Mozambique to the east and north-east, Zambia to the north-west, Botswana to the south-west and South Africa to the south. Four countries - Zambia, Zimbabwe, Botswana and Namibia - meet at a single point at the country's westernmost pointy extreme.  The north-west consists mostly of plateaux, characterised by bushveld dotted with small rocky outcrops and bald knob-like domes of slickrock, making for an acne-writ-large landscape. The hot dry lowveld of southern Zimbabwe is comprised mainly of level savanna, sloping almost imperceptibly towards the Limpopo River on the border with South Africa. The Eastern Highlands, straddling the Mozambique border, are Zimbabwe's main mountainous region. The highest peak is Nyangani, which rises 2592m (8500ft) near the northern end of the range.  The critters, crawlies and crops in Zimbabwe are mind-boggling. Elephant, buffalo, lion, cheetah, hyena, jackal, monkey and antelope are amongst the wildlife grazing, gobbling, louching and lounging around the national parks. Species which are unique to Zimbabwe or found only in limited ranges elsewhere, include the rare nyala, the king cheetah and the samango monkey. Zimbabwe is also one of Africa's last rhinoceros ranges, and both black and white rhino are present, albeit in small numbers.  Zimbabwe's cutest strapling is the sausage tree, which takes its name from the immense sausage-shaped brown fruits which grow to a barbecue-busting 1m (3ft) in length and 18cm (7in) in diameter. The fruit is a favourite antelope nibbly, but is also dried and turned into a paste by humans to use as an ointment. Sausage-tree cream is gaining international recognition as a cure for basal-cell carcinoma, a form of skin cancer associated with aging and prolonged exposure to the sun. Look out for it in pharmacies if you're feeling a bit spotty.  Because Zimbabwe stretches over a high plateau averaging 900m (3000ft) above sea level, it's not as hot as the latitude would suggest. Winter (May to October) is similar to the Mediterranean summer with warm, sunny days and cool, clear nights. It never snows, not even in the Eastern Highlands, but overnight frosts and freezing temperatures are not uncommon on the plateaux. The lowveld and the Zambezi Valley experience hotter and more humid temperatures, but in winter there's still very little rainfall. Most of Zimbabwe's rain falls in brief afternoon deluges and electrical storms in the relatively humid summer months (November to April).  
africa_zimbabwe_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most visitors are not required to obtain a visa for stays of up to 90 days.Health risks: Bilharzia, cholera, malaria, rabies, yellow feverTime: GMT/UTC plus two hoursElectricity: 220VWeights & measures: MetricTourism: About 500,000 visitors per year When to Go  The dry winter months (May to October) are the most comfortable for travelling, but you'll miss the green landscapes that characterise the hotter and wetter summer season (November to April). In winter, night-time temperatures can fall below freezing but the days are best for wildlife viewing because animals tend to concentrate close to water holes and are therefore easily observed. National parks are most crowded during South African school holidays, so to avoid the throngs, avoid mid-April to mid-May and mid-July to mid-September. There's a secondary rush around the Namibian school holidays in December and early January.     Events  The most pleasant cultural events will be those you run across incidentally: a rural fair, a primary school theatre production, a traditional wedding or a town anniversary. You'll almost certainly be welcomed to share in local festivities.  There are also several fixed events. On 18 April, Independence Day festivities are celebrated around the country, and in late May, Africa Day commemorates past independence struggles. On 11 and 12 August, the Zimbabwean military forces are feted and heroes of the independence movement are honoured. There's also the enormous Zimbabwe Agricultural Society Show, held at the Harare showgrounds around the end of August, and the Houses of Stone Music Festival, a celebration of traditional Zimbabwean music that takes place in Harare on a different date each year.    
africa_zimbabwe_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Although it's well off the trampled route, Tengenenge Farm, a remote sculptors' community at the foot of the Great Dyke near Guruve in Northern Zimbabwe, makes a worthwhile visit. The farm is the realised vision of tobacco farmer Tom Blomefield, who earned enough money from chrome mining to abandon farming and concentrate on his consuming interest in art. Today, the farm is supported by the sale of artists' works as well as outside sponsorship, and is always on the lookout for new talent. Some of the original artists maintain farms at the community while others have established studios nearer their market.  Visitors can stroll through the extensive sculpture gardens, which contain around 17,000 original pieces. Room and board is expensive at the farm but you can bring your own food and you can always camp in the bush. There's no public transport to Tengenenge; the nearest bus passes a turn-off 19km (12mi) west of the farm, and, unless you're lucky with a lift, you'll probably have to hoof it from there.  
antarctica_antarctica_activities.html:  Activities  For the most part, Antarctic tourists come to walk around, look at the scientific bases, take some photographs and journey out on zodiacs to the region's spectacular sights. Increasingly, however, tour operators are offering more for the outdoorsy type who's skied, climbed, camped and trekked everywhere else and wants a new challenge, and the demand seems to be there. People wishing to camp ashore must bring their own sleeping bags and foam mats, and climbers must supply their own crampons, ice axes and harnesses.  For the first time, scuba diving, including night diving, is being offered to tourists who have suitable qualifications. No decompression diving is undertaken - the dives are less than 39m (128ft). All divers must have at least 100 logged dives and be certified as a PADI Rescue Diver or higher (equivalent qualifications are accepted). Divers must bring all their own equipment.  In 1995, more than 100 runners participated in the first Antarctic Marathon run over a 42km (26mi) double-loop course on King George Island in the South Shetlands, and the race was a near disaster. The runners started at the Uruguayan base of Artigas and passed through Russian, Chilean and Chinese stations and included some highly dangerous and unsupervised sections. Some of the participants became delirious with hypothermia, others were lost in the fog on top of a glacier and one fell into a crevasse up to his chest. Despite this and the heavy criticism that the event drew the organisers are keen to run the marathon again.  
antarctica_antarctica_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Lemaire Channel is a spectacular sight with enormous sheer cliffs falling straight into the sea. It's a narrow channel flanked by the Antarctic Peninsula on one side and Booth Island on the other. So photogenic is the channel that it's nicknamed 'Kodak Gap', and it's only once you're well within it that a way through is visible. Unfortunately, ice can sometimes obscure the path and ships need to retreat and sail around Booth Island. At the northern end of Lemaire Channel are a pair of tall, rounded and often snow-capped peaks known as Una's Tits that are also popular with holiday snappers. The channel was first navigated by Belgian explorer de Gerlache during his 1898 expedition aboard Belgica, and, curiously, named it after the Belgian explorer Charles Lemaire, who explored parts of the Congo.  
antarctica_antarctica_environment.html:  Environment  Antarctica (where the South Pole is located ) is the fifth-largest continent in the world, around twice the size of Australia. It's the world's most arid continent (technically a desert) and, at an average elevation of 2250m (7380ft), it's also the world's highest. The highest point is the 4897m (16,062ft) Vinson Massif. Recent satellite imaging has established that 99.6% of the continent is covered in ice, and this represents 90% of the world's ice - 30 million cubic km, around 70% of the world's fresh water. The Antarctic Circle is an imaginary line in the Southern Ocean parallel to the equator at a latitude of 66 32' south. Antarctica's nearest continental neighbour is South America, around 1130km (700mi) away from the tip of the Antarctic Peninsula. Considerably further away are the southern tips of the Australian and African continents.  Plant species in Antarctica are far more numerous than you might expect given the region's harsh climate and aridity, but they're all humble little life-forms. There are hundreds of species of algae, around 350 species of lichen, 100 species of moss, two grass species and a pearlwort. There are even some lichens and algae that grow inside rocks - endolithic plants. Of course the subantarctic islands support a much wider variety of flora species with South Georgia alone having at least 50 vascular plants.  The largest of the endemic land-based animal species is a wingless midge ( Belgica antarctica) that grows to just over a centimetre. The rest, all invertebrates, are even smaller. About 45 bird species breed south of the Antarctica Convergence, and just a few of those, mostly penguins and petrels, on the Antarctic continent itself. The Southern Ocean, by contrast, teems with life and supports vast numbers of fish, seal, whale and seabird species.  
antarctica_antarctica_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Since no-one owns Antarctica no-one needs a visa to visit it. However, shipping schedules are at the mercy of the ice and elements so, even if you are travelling directly from your home country, you will need to bring a valid passport since your vessel could quite possibly pull into the port of another country for shelter. You will need visas for any countries that your ship visits en route to Antarctica.Health risks: Hypothermia, sunburn, dehydration, frostbite and snow blindnessTime: Clock time is largely irrelevant (the tourist season has about 20 hours' daylight each day), but most bases set their clocks in accordance with their home countries.Electricity: Each ship and each base has its own independent electricity supply, but many of the ships are Russian with a 220V/50 Hz output into a standard European two-pin socket. When to Go  Tourists cannot visit Antarctica during the winter; pack ice extends 1000km (620mi) around the continent making ship access impossible and the darkness (almost 24 hours a day) does not lift until summer time. Add to this the midwinter 'chill' - temperatures can be -80 or 90 Celsius - and you begin to realise that summer might be slightly more pleasant anyway.  October and November are early summer when the pack ice is breaking up and the birds, especially penguins, are courting and mating. December and January are the height of the austral summer and bring with them warmer weather, up to 20 hours of daylight each day and the bulk of the region's tourists. This is also the time when the penguins are hatching eggs and feeding chicks. In the late summer months of February and March there are terrific whale-watching opportunities and the adult penguins are ashore moulting. Remember also that some vessels visit Antarctica 10 or more times in a single season and the staff members and lecturers on these ships can become jaded and burnt out well before the end of the summer.     Events  Antarctica's most important holiday is Midwinter Day, on June 22, when the long polar night is half over. There are celebrations in all the bases which include feasting, games, songs and even local theatre productions. The last day of the sun and the first day of the sun are also important dates in the Antarctic calendar, although they fall on different dates depending on latitude. Visitors are unlikely to experience any of these festivities, however, because they occur during the long winter, but Christmas and New Year's Eve are celebrated with much enthusiasm and all the kooky style that a group of scientists and researchers can muster.    
antarctica_antarctica_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Bouvetoya (54 42' S, 03 37' E) is the most isolated island on earth. The nearest substantial land mass is more than 1600km (990mi) away. Glaciers cover 93% of the 54 sq km (21 sq mi) island and prevent landings on the south and east coasts, while steep cliffs as high as 490m (1607ft) block access to the north, west and southwest. Sometime between 1955 and 1958, a low-lying shelf of lava appeared on Bouvetoya's west coast, providing the only bird nesting site of any size on the island. The island is rarely visited, but two events in its history are rather mysterious: first, a sunken lifeboat and assorted supplies were discovered on the island in 1964, but their origin could not be determined. Then, in September 1979, a thermonuclear bomb blast was detected to the west of Bouvetoya, though no country ever admitted to setting off a nuclear device there.  
australasia_adelaide_activities.html:  Activities  There are several bushwalking clubs in the Adelaide area which organise weekend walks in the Mt Lofty Ranges. There is good sailing all along the Adelaide shoreline of the Gulf of St Vincent. Beaches close to the city, such as Seacliff, Brighton, Somerton and Glenelg offer excellent swimming, though you have to go a litte further afield for surfing. There's an artificial reef designed for divers off Glenelg beach. You can go ice-skating or skiing year-round at the indoor rink and slope in Thebarton.  
australasia_adelaide_attractions.html:  Attractions  This museum, which has a huge whale skeleton in the front window, is one of Adelaide's landmarks. Although its primarily a natural history museum, with the usual array of stuffed, glassy-eyed critters, it also has a good collection of Aboriginal artefacts, including an Aboriginal Dreamtime exhibition. You'll find the museum on North Terrace.  Other museums nearby include the excellent Migration Museum, which tells the story of groups from over 100 nationalities who've migrated to South Australia, and the University's Museum of Classical Archaeology, which has a fascinating collection of antiquities dating from the third millennium BC.  
australasia_adelaide_facts.html:  When to Go  Adelaide can be pretty damn hot in summer (December to February), and if you don't have access to a pool or airconditioner you'll find it unpleasant. If you're a festival buff, though, you really shouldn't miss the three-week Adelaide Festival of the Arts, held in late February or early March. Spring and Autumn are probably the most pleasant times, with winter (June to August) getting a bit cold and soggy.     Events  The  Adelaide Arts Festival takes place at the beginning of March in even-numbered years. The festival attracts culture vultures from all over Australia to see live drama, dance and music. It also includes a writers' week, art exhibitions and poetry readings. Guest speakers and performers from all over the world attend. The  Fringe Festival, which takes place at the same time, features alternative contemporary music and performance art. Womadelaide is an outdoor festival of world music and dance which takes place every February in odd-numbered years.    
australasia_adelaide_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The oldest surviving German settlement in Australia, Hahndorf, 29km (18mi) south-east of Adelaide, is a popular day trip. Settled in 1839 by Lutherans who left Prussia to escape religious persecution, Hahndorf still has an honorary burgermeister (mayor). These days it's a major tourist attraction, with more stuffed koalas than you can shake a eucalyptus leaf at.  There are many old German-style buildings in town. The German Arms Hotel dates from 1839 and is one of the best pubs in the Adelaide hills. The Hahndorf Academy was established in 1857 and houses an art gallery, craft shop and museum, with several paintings by Sir Hans Heysen, the famous landscape artist who lived in the town for many years. If you're keen to indulge in a stein or seven, visit the town on Founders Day, held over a weekend in March. Buses run to Hahndorf from Adelaide several times a day.  
australasia_auckland_activities.html:  Activities  With a mild climate and stunning natural surroundings to call their own, Aucklanders are bound to lead a healthy outdoor lifestyle. There are some 80,000 pleasure boats in Auckland, and it's claimed that the city's per capita boat-ownership is the world's highest. As well as boating, the plentiful beaches offer swimming, surfing, wind-surfing, sea kayaking and other water sports. There are excellent, calm bay beaches on the North Shore, including Takapuna and the East Coast Bays, along with the wild surf beaches of the west coast - Karekare, Piha, Te Henga. For a more relaxing view of the harbour, there are plenty of ferry and scenic cruises operating to the North Shore and islands. Auckland also has numerous indoor swimming pools.  In addition to plenty of leafy parks, there are many marked walking trails around the city. These include heritage trails through historic city districts, and coastal and bush trails for tramping (hiking) farther afield. One of the city's great participatory sporting events is the Round the Bays fun-run along Tamaki Drive, held in March. Cycling and inline skating are also popular. In rugby and cricket season, Eden Park is the place to be, and golf can be played all year round at one of twenty courses. And for adrenaline addicts, New Zealand is famous for its extreme sports: there are facilities in and around Auckland for rock climbing and abseiling (including rap jumping - face-down abseiling), paragliding and skydiving, bungy jumping and canyoning.  
australasia_auckland_attractions.html:  Attractions  A combination of war memorial and museum, this is Auckland's must-see attraction, a first stop for insight into the country and its peoples. It includes several rooms dedicated to the art and culture of the Maori and Pacific Islanders, a star feature of which is a war canoe from the 1830s. A Maori cultural performance takes place at 11 am and 1:30 pm daily.  An entire floor is dedicated to New Zealand's natural history. Among other things, this excellent display has interactive consoles that allow you to discover what New Zealand's birds look and sound like, and an impressive collection of dinosaur skeletons. The children's discovery centre is a wonderland with all manner of activities, games and interactive displays. The top floor is a war memorial, housing reminders of wars past, including the exhibition 'Scars on the Heart'.  The lovely museum building is located in Auckland Domain, the city's oldest, largest and most attractive park, with expansive lawns and landscaped gardens. From Parnell Rd, where both the Explorer Bus and Link bus stop, it's a short walk to the museum.  
australasia_auckland_facts.html:  When to Go  Auckland's busiest tourist season arrives with the warmer weather between November and April and hits its peak during summer school holidays (20 December-late January). To a lesser extent the Easter weekend, Labour Day weekend (late October) and the mid-year school holidays are also busy. January and February are the best beach-weather months, but December and March are usually warm - even hot at times. November and April are slightly cooler and not so good for hanging aorund at the beach, but it's noticeably quieter, and accommodation is easier to find.     Events  The summer months are a happening time in Auckland. In January the arrival of Captain Hobson in New Zealand is celebrated in the Auckland Anniversary and Regatta, there is a swag of tennis championships and Auckland's parks host a bunch of music events. Come March, the hugely popular Pasifika Festival celebrates Polynesian culture through music and performance at Western Springs. The Waiheke Jazz Festival also tunes up and full-size Maori waka (war canoes) take to the Waikato River, Ngaruawahia, for the Turangawaewae Regatta. November blooms with the Ellerslie Flower Show at the Botanic Gardens, and the year is wrapped up with the Auckland Cup at Ellerslie Race Course. Various small food, wine and music festivals crop up throughout the year.    
australasia_auckland_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  One of Auckland regional parks, Ambury is a working farm right on the city's doorstep. The park is about 15km (9mi) south of Auckland city, near the airport, on the shores of the Manukau Harbour. There are sheep, cows, horses, goats, chickens, peacocks, turkeys and kune kune (a type of wild pig). Some 86 species of birds live on the foreshore, including pied stilts, welcome swallows, and oyster-catchers. It's also a favourite wintering ground for migrant birds. You can wander freely around the farm (remember to close the gates) and there's no entry charge.  A detour across Wallace Rd takes you to Mangere Mountain, a volcanic cone created some 18,000 years ago and the site of one of Auckland's largest pa (the remains of kumara pits can still be seen). You can also take a horseback tour through the park.  
australasia_australia_activities.html:  Activities  With over 7.5 million sq km of sparsely populated territory, it's not surprising that Australia is an adventure playground. You can chew up the km with a 4WD, or explore smaller regions by foot, horseback or even on the back of a camel. You can also find some fine touring country for cycling, though only the very experienced should tackle the dry centre. There are fabulous walks for hikers in the Northern Territory's MacDonnell Ranges, South Australia's Flinders Ranges, New South Wales' Blue Mountains and Snowy Mountains (straddling the border with Victoria) and Tasmania's vast wilderness. Australia's best skiing and snow-boarding is in the Snowy Mountains, while in the warmer months you can clip-clop along the Snowy's excellent horse riding trails.  There are countless surfing beaches along the Australian coast, some of them in the cities (Sydney and Perth), some in beach towns (Lorne in Victoria, Byron Bay in New South Wales and the Gold Coast in Queensland) and some in remote areas (the south-west of South Australia and the north-west of West Australia). Apart from the diving mecca which is Queensland's Great Barrier Reef, diving spots include South Australia's Kangaroo Island (where there are several accessible shipwrecks) and West Australia's Esperance, Rottnest Island, and Carnarvon.   Whalewatching is possible at many places; the most popular are Eden in New South Wales, Warrnambool in Victoria, Albany in Western Australia and Fraser Island in Queensland. White-water rafting and/or canoeing are possible at Coffs Harbour on New South Wales' Nymboida River, on the upper Murray near Khancoban also in New South Wales; along Queensland's Tully and North Johnstone rivers between Townsville and Cairns; and in Tasmania.  
australasia_australia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Australia's premier city is the oldest settlement in Australia, the economic powerhouse of the nation and the country's capital in everything but name. Built on the shores of the stunning Port Jackson, you would have to die and go to heaven before you see a more spectacular setting for a city. It's a vital, self-regarding metropolis, exuding both a devil-may-care urbanity and a slavish obsession with global fads. The Olympic Games, held in Sydney in 2000, confirmed the city's reputation as a civilised, fun-loving and friendly place to be.  Keep in mind that to prove you've been in Australia, you'll have to take a photo of the Sydney Opera House, with the Sydney Harbour Bridge in the background. The ability to pronounce Bondi will add an extra dash of authenticity.  
australasia_australia_environment.html:  Environment  A vast island continent situated south of Indonesia and Papua New Guinea, Australia lies between the Pacific and Indian oceans. The world's sixth largest country, Australia measures some 4000km (2500mi) east to west and 3200km (2000mi) north to south. Much of the interior of the country is flat, barren and extremely sparsely populated. The bulk of the population lives on the narrow, fertile eastern coastal plain and on the south-eastern coast. The continent-long Great Dividing Range runs north-south down the eastern seaboard, separating the coastal plain from the drier inland areas. The Great Barrier Reef lies between 50-300km (30-185mi) offshore and extends 2000km (1240mi) from the Torres Strait to Gladstone.  Australia is blessed with a fascinating mix of native flora and fauna. Its distinctive plants include the ubiquitous gum tree or eucalypt, of which there are some 700 species. Other common plants are wattle, banksia, waratahs, bottlebrushes, paperbarks and tea trees. Endemic animals include the iconic kangaroo, koala and emu, and the platypus, echidna, possum, wombat and dingo. There are also a number of interesting birds, such as parrots, cockatoos and kookaburras, and countless indigenous reptile and insect species. Fauna to be wary of include Australian spiders (especially the redback and funnel-web), snakes (notably the venomous brown, tiger, death adder, copperhead and red-bellied black varieties) and both salt and freshwater crocodiles. There are more than 500 national parks, incorporating rainforests, deserts, mountain ranges and coastal dunes.  Australian seasons are the antithesis of those in Europe and North America: summer starts in December, autumn in March, winter in June and spring in September. Seasonal variations in temperature are not extreme except in the deserts, where scorching daytime temperatures can approach freezing by night. Otherwise, it's rare for temperatures to drop below zero on the mainland except in the mountains. As you head north, the seasonal variations become even less distinct except that summer is much wetter and more humid. Darwin, in the far north, is in the monsoon belt, where there are just two seasons: hot and wet (when floods can occur) and hot and dry.  The southern states are popular during the summer months, but the best time to visit is probably the shoulder seasons of spring or autumn when the weather in the south is mild, Queensland is still warm, the humidity is not too draining in the north and there are less flies in the bush. Spring in the outback can be spectacular if rains encourage wildflowers.  
australasia_australia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Every nationality except New Zealanders need visas. Tourist visas and Electronic Travel Authority (ETA) visas are valid for three months. ETAs are just under US$11; standard visas cost US$35. Longer-term visas can be applied for.Health risks: Sunburn, heat exhaustion, drowningTime: There are three time zones: Eastern Standard Time is UTC +10; Central Time is UTC +9.5; and Western Time UTC +8.Electricity: 220-240VWeights & measures: metric When to Go  Any time is a good time to be in Australia. Summer (December to February) can get uncomfortably hot just about anywhere, even sometimes in Tasmania. If you're in the southern states during these months it's great beach weather and great melanoma weather. Up north, this is the wet season, when it's very, very humid and when the sea is swarming with box jellyfish. On the upside, the Top End is beautifully green and free of tourists at this time.   From June until August things have cooled down a little and dried up a lot up north. This is a good time to visit Queensland or the outback. If you're here for the skiing, now's the time to head for the snowfields of NSW and Victoria. Overall, spring and autumn are probably the safest bets - the weather is reasonably mild wherever you are, and spring brings out the wildflowers in the outback, while autumn is particularly beautiful around Canberra and in the Victorian Alps. If you want to avoid holiday road chaos, don't arrive in Australia at Easter or just before Christmas.     Events  Christmas is part of the long summer school vacation and during December and January you can be forgiven for thinking that half of Australia is on holiday. This is when accommodation is almost always booked out.  Australia's arts festivals attract culture vultures from all over Australia to see mainstream and fringe drama, dance, music and visual arts. The huge Festival of Sydney, which takes up most of January, is the umbrella for a number of events from open air concerts, to street theatre and fireworks. The Adelaide Arts Festival takes place at the beginning of March in even-numbered years. In odd-numbered years, Womadelaide, Adelaide's outdoor festival of world music and dance, takes care of February. Melbourne has a Comedy Festival in April, the world's biggest Writers' Festival in September and the fabulous Melbourne International Festival in October. A couple of festivals to celebrate Aboriginal arts and culture include the Stompen Ground Festival, which is held in Broome in October and the  Barunga Wugularr Sports & Cultural Festival, held near Katherine in June.  Sporty fun includes Darwin's Beer Can Regatta in August, when a series of boat races are held for craft constructed entirely of beer cans; Alice Spings holds the Henley-on-Todd, a boat race 'run' on a dry river bed. More mainstream events include the Sydney to Hobart yacht race (from Boxing Day); the Australian Open tennis championship (Melbourne in January); the Australian Grand Prix (Melbourne in March); Australian Rules Football (around the country from March to September); and the country-stopping Melbourne Cup on the first Tuesday in November.  Gay festivals include Sydney's massive, outlandish Gay & Lesbian Mardi Gras, in February/March, and Melbourne's January/February Midsumma Festival.    
australasia_australia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Alice (population 20,000) is a pleasant modern town, smack in the middle of Australia, built on the banks of the usually-dry Todd River. At first appearance it's so civilised that it can be a real disappointment to those expecting saloons on every corner and colourful bush characters, but stick around and explore the area and you'll begin to appreciate the flavour of this desert community. The town was founded as a staging point for the overland telegraph line in 1870, although its growth has occurred only in the last 30 years. The road south to Adelaide was only fully sealed in 1987.  
australasia_brisbane_activities.html:  Activities  The Brisbane Bushwalkers Club has information on bushwalks close to Brisbane. The swimming pool at Spring Hill Baths in Torrington Square is among the oldest in the southern hemisphere and is surrounded by old-style colourfully painted changing cubicles. For those who prefer their water salty, there are plenty of swimming beaches close to Brisbane on sheltered Moreton Bay. The artificial lagoon at South Bank Parklands is great for an inner-city dip. A number of river cruises are available on the Kookaburra River Queens, restored paddle steamers which depart from Eagle St Pier. The Cliffs, on the south banks of the Brisbane River, has some good rock climbing and abseiling - the area is floodlit until midnight.  
australasia_brisbane_attractions.html:  Attractions  Follow the golden arrows set into the footpath for a walking tour of Brisbane's remaining early buildings. The best old buildings, notably the Mansions and Harris Terrace, line George St. Also on the same street are the Old Government House and Parliament House, both dating from the 1860s. The Old Windmill & Observatory on Wickham Terrace, dates from 1828. It was originally built to grind grain for the early convict colony but, due to a fundamental design error, failed to work properly. It was converted to a signal post and later to a meteorological observatory. The Italianate, sandstone Treasury building on the banks of the Brisbane River has undergone an appropriate metamorphosis into the Conrad Treasury Casino.  
australasia_brisbane_facts.html:  When to Go  While Brisbane doesn't suffer the stifling humidity you'll find further north, it's still most pleasant in winter (June to August) - the days are warm and sunny, the nights cool, and it's a delightful contrast to the chilly miserableness further south. However, winter is also the time everyone from Sydney and Melbourne heads north to escape that chilly miserableness, so expect a crowd. Easter and Christmas are also pretty hectic. If you prefer a bit of peace and quiet, try May or October, when the humidity's still OK but the crowds have diminished.     Events  On Australia Day (26 January), Kangaroo Point hosts the cockroach races. Brisbane's major festival of the arts, the outdoor Brisbane Festival, is held over two weeks in mid-September. The Royal National Agricultural Show (the 'Ekka') is held at the Exhibition Grounds in mid-August. There's also a 12-day international film festival in August, the Livid alternative rock festival in October, an international comedy festival in April and a biennial music festival every second June (odd years).    
australasia_brisbane_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Brisbane Forest Park is a 285 sq km (110 sq mi) reserve of natural bushland in the D'Aguilar Range. The park starts on the outskirts of Brisbane and stretches for more than 50km (30mi) to the north and west. It's a great area for bushwalks, cycling, horse riding, camping and scenic drives.  The park has its own information centre and Walkabout Creek, a freshwater study centre where you can see fish, lizards, pythons and turtles at close quarters. There are a number of good walking trails throughout the park, and you can camp here overnight. You really need your own car to get to the best walking trails, so it's worth driving here, or you can get a bus from Brisbane which stops a short walk from the information centre.  
australasia_canberra_activities.html:  Activities  Canberra is a wonderful place for cycling and it has a great series of bicycle tracks. Inline skating is also popular. There are watersports on Lake Burley Griffin with canoes, catamarans, paddle boats and surf skis for hire. Canoeing and white-water rafting on the Murrumbidgee are other water-based activities. Swimming in the lake, however, is not recommended. There are several fine swimming spots along the Murrumbidgee and Cotter rivers such as Uriarra Crossing, Casuarina Sands, Kambah Pool, the Cotter Dam, Pine Island, Point Hut Crossing and Gibraltar Falls.   Bushwalking is one of Canberra's most popular activities and there are particularly good walking tracks along the Murrumbidgee from Kambah Pool to Pine Island (7km/4mi) or to Casuarina Sands (about 21km/13mi). The Tidbinbilla Nature Reserve has marked trails. Cruises and balloon and aeroplane flights are another way to get an angle on the city. There is sometimes enough snow for cross-country skiing in Namadgi National Park, or you can enjoy the fake stuff at Corin Forest, and the NSW snowfields are within four hours' drive.  
australasia_canberra_attractions.html:  Attractions  As Canberra's raison d'etre, Parliament House is the thing most visitors to the city want to have a gander at. Opened in 1988, new Parliament House (as it's commonly known, to distinguish it from the old Parliament House) is a marble lined monstrosity squatting at the apex of the Parliamentary Triangle. Built into the hill, the roof of the house is lined with grass to make it blend in. In true Australian tradition, the grass is imported lawn mix, which requires gargantuan quantities of water and weedkiller to keep it green and glowing. The interior of the house is rather impressive - each of its major sections is lined with Australian timbers, and it is littered with over 3000 art works bought or commissioned from Australian artists.  Visitors can wander around the public areas of the house, including the House of Representatives and the Senate, though you may have to make a booking if something particularly juicy is being debated. There are free guided tours of the building on non-sitting days.   Old Parliament House, further down the hill towards the lake, was the seat of government from 1927 until 1988. Far more modest than its succesor, the old house resembles a slightly sprawling wedding cake. You can take a tour of the building or wander its pleasant grounds. The house is also home to the National Portrait Gallery.  
australasia_canberra_facts.html:  When to Go  Autumn (March to May) in Canberra is quite simply gorgeous. The days are sunny and crisp, the trees are changing and everything looks lovely. Winter (June to August) is cold; really, really cold. There are mornings when it feels like breathing in will crack your lungs, but the sky is usually blue and the weather is sunny. Spring (September to November) is much wetter and windier, though the very popular Floriade festival brightens things up. Summer (December to February) can be just a bit too hot.     Events  The Canberra Festival celebrates the city's birthday over 10 days in March with music, food, a mardi gras, displays, a raft race and a parade. March also brings the huge National Folk Festival to Canberra. Spring is celebrated with the Floriade Festival, when Commonwealth Park becomes a riot of floral colour. Canberra is best avoided at New Year when the Street Machine Summer Nats brings hot-rods and wet t-shirt competitions to the nation's capital.    
australasia_canberra_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Namadgi takes up all the bits of the ACT that Canberra doesn't; that is, most of the south-west. Part of the park borders the mountainous Kosciuszko National Park in NSW's Snowy Mountains. There are seven peaks over 1600m (5248ft) in the park, and some of the bushwalking is downright challenging. Booroomba Rocks is one of the most popular spots in the park, with some great climbing and scrambling over its huge granite boulders. Sometimes there's enough snow in Namadgi for cross-country skiing.  The park has a visitor information centre, or you can pick up brochures from the Canberra visitor information centre. There are several picnic sites and two campsites - you're not permitted to camp outside these. You can either get to the park in your own car on the road south from Tharwa to Adaminaby, or take a tour with one of a couple of operators in Canberra.  
australasia_christchurch_activities.html:  Activities  There's a whole range of adventure activities to be had in Christchurch, or just on its fringe. Ballooning, fishing, horse trekking, jet boating, tandem skydiving, biplane flights and golf are all possible; ask at the visitor centre. There's very good rafting on the Rangitata River in Peel Forest and you can ski within a one to two-hour drive of Christchurch during the winter months.  For summer swimming or wind swept winter walks, the closest beaches to the city are Waimairi, North, New Brighton and South Brighton, east and northeast of the city and all accessible by bus. Sumner to the southeast is a favourite and also a great place to combine paddling, people watching and a bite to eat. Taylors Mistake, beyond Sumner, is a popular spot for  surfing.   Wine tours of the Waipara Valley and the surrounding Pegasus Bay area are a less active option, or there's Kaikoura to the north, famous as a wildlife enthusiast's Mecca. Not only is there whale watching, there's dolphin and seal swimming and even shark diving.  
australasia_christchurch_attractions.html:  Attractions  Cathedral Square, as the heart of Christchurch, is the best place to start exploring the city. Although attracting its fair share of tourists, it's also well used by locals. The Cathedral, built in Gothic Revival style and symbolising the Church of England bedrock of this city, dominates the square. There's a visitor center-cum-souvenir shop and cafe, and you can climb the spire (for a small fee). Look out for the Wizard, a famous eccentric who takes up a soapbox most fine afternoons somewhere in the square. An enduring, if more temporal, Christchurch landmark, he's been coming here for over 25 years.  
australasia_christchurch_facts.html:  When to Go  Christchurch has a temperate climate, although summers can be hotter than the norm for the South Island. They are usually pretty dry too, thanks to the shelter of the nearby mountains. Winter temperatures can be cold - 1-10 C (34-50 F) - with snow at sea level not unheard of. Missing the Mistral, the Sirocco or the Santa Ana? Christchurch has its very own notorious wind - a fiery springtime nor'wester - that is associated with increases in suicide and domestic violence, and can cause widespread damage when at gale force.  The peak travel time in New Zealand is the summer school holidays, from late December to late January - this is also the best time for beach weather. The warmer months (November to April), in general are busy, and you should consider booking accommodation in advance. The exception to this is, obviously, ski resorts, which get crowded in winter.     Events  Christchurch takes to the streets in summer. Held mid-to-late January, the World Busker Festival draws international and local performers who perform in Cathedral Square, Oxford Terrace and the Arts Centre. The Dux de Lux restaurant hosts the festival club. There's also the three-month long SummerTimes celebration, which includes outdoor concerts, fireworks and children's entertainment. The longest running multisport event in the world, Speight's Coast to Coast finishes on Christchurch's Sumner Beach - after a 239km (148 mi) cycle/run/kayak across the Southern Alps.  In mid-winter there's the biennial Christchurch Arts Festival, a diverse program of performing arts, jazz, cabaret and classical music. There is also plenty of rugby action in the cold months; if you're lucky you may catch an international such as the Bledisloe, if not, there are regular local matches. Christchurch's gardens come alive in spring, and the totally trad Royal Canterbury Agricultural and Pastoral Show and horse racing carnival, collectively known as Canterbury Showtime is held in November.  Public holidays include Christmas and Boxing Day (25-26 December), New Year (1-2 January), Easter (March or April), Waitangi Day (6 February), Anzac Day (25 April), Queen's Birthday (1 June), Labour Day (October) and Canterbury Anniversary Day (mid-December).    
australasia_christchurch_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Not as off the beaten track as the name might suggest, this huge complex is located, sans ice, near the airport. Christchurch has been the base for the USA's Antarctic programs since the 1950s, and this is also where the New Zealand and Italian operations are administered. Visitors can experience Antarctic-type stuff such as being very cold (dubbed the 'Snow and Ice Experience', where you can explore a sub-zero snow cave and slide down a tunnel swept by freezing winds) and rides on a Hägglund Snowmobile. It's all very well presented and hands-on, with the added bonus that most of the staff have lived and worked on the great southern continent. You can reach the centre by airport bus.  
australasia_darwin_activities.html:  Activities   Fishing for barramundi, a freshwater and saltwater perch that often grows over a metre long, is a popular pastime in Darwin. Sunset cruises of the harbour run most evenings. There are also boat trips at Adelaide River Crossing to see crocodiles jumping out of the water and grabbing pieces of meat held on the end of poles. There is bungee jumping on weekends at Wharf Precinct, and a parachute club at Batchelor, 85km south of Darwin. Darwin is a good place to organise bushwalking or 4WD drive tours of the Top End, Kakadu or the Kimberley.  
australasia_darwin_attractions.html:  Attractions  This excellent aquarium displays living coral ecosystems and an array of exotic creatures associated with coral, such as sea horses, clown fish and butterfly fish. Housed in the same building is the Pearling Exhibition, which deals with the history of the pearling industry and has informative audiovisual displays. The exhibitions are in the Wharf Precinct, once the city's ugly port facility, but now being redeveloped into a tourist drawcard.  
australasia_darwin_facts.html:  When to Go  Ask any Territorian when the best time to visit Darwin is and invariably they'll say the wet season (October to March). Everything is green, there's no dust, barramundi fishing is at its best, prices drop, there are spectacular electrical storms and all the tourists have gone home. The tourists have gone home for a reason - the humidity is often unbearable, roads are impassable, swimming in the ocean is impossible, and cyclones are something of a worry. Late wet, early dry is probably the best season, as the rains taper off and the humidity drops. Whatever season you arrive in, the temperature will most likely be between 30 C and 33 C (86 F and 91 F). If street parades are your thing, make your way here in August for the Festival of Darwin and the Beer Can Regatta.     Events  There are beach parties and rock concerts on May Day, more to celebrate the absence of box jellyfish and the start of swimming season than to pay tribute to International Labour Day. The Royal Darwin Show is held in July. Darwin's legendary thirst for beer is celebrated at the Beer Can Regatta in August, when a series of boat races are held for craft constructed entirely of beer cans. Other August festivities include the Rodeo and Mud Crab Tying Competition, and the Darwin Cup horse race.    
australasia_darwin_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This crocodile-free swimming hole is a very pleasant spot, surrounded by forest. It's about 35km (22mi) east of the city and makes a great break from the heat, but it can get uncomfortably crowded at weekends. Nevertheless, it's a pleasant spot for an excursion; there are short walking tracks and lots of bird life. You can see all sorts of fish and turtles, and tame wallabies graze around the springs.  
australasia_hobart_activities.html:  Activities  Apart from looking up and around at the very special architecture, poking through the bits and bobs at the Salamanca Place craft market, and signing petitions urging that the right to sexual choice be introduced to Tasmania, activities include cruising on the Derwent River, taking the National Trust walking tour, ascending Mt Wellington to experience the views from the top, or taking a scenic flight.  
australasia_hobart_attractions.html:  Attractions  The row of beautiful sandstone warehouses on the harbourfront at Salamanca Place is a prime example of Australian colonial architecture. Dating back to the whaling days of the 1830s, these warehouses were the centre of Hobart Town's trade and commerce. Today they have been tastefully developed (if you like that sort of thing) to house galleries, restaurants, nightspots and shops selling everything from vegetables to antiques. An open-air market is held at Salamanca Place every Saturday morning.  
australasia_hobart_facts.html:  When to Go  Hobart is most popular in summer (December to February) when it's warm enough for swimming and great to be outdoors. Accommodation is heavily booked and restaurants are crowded, but it's also when you'll see the big events, such as the Sydney to Hobart yacht race. Winter (June to August) is often cold, wet and cloudy; spring (September to November) can be very windy and the hills around Hobart may still get snow. Autumn, from March to May, is mild and there are plenty of festivals.     Events  The New Year arrival of the yachts competing in the Sydney to Hobart and Melbourne to Hobart yacht races is the apex of the Hobart Summer Festival, held from late December to late January. The Royal Hobart Regatta in February is the largest boating carnival in the southern hemisphere. In March, sharpen your quill for the Salamanca Writers' Weekend. The Royal Agricultural and Horticultural Show is in October.    
australasia_hobart_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Hobart is dominated by the 1270m (4165ft) Mt Wellington. There's a web of walking tracks over and around the summit, and the views (when the lowering fog allows) are fabulous. There's no public transport to the top of the mountain, but you can get buses to Ferntree, one of Hobart's outer suburbs, and do the return walk to the summit in about six hours. Organised bus tours run all the way to the top. It's always cold at the top of Mt Wellington, even at the height of summer, so bring a cardie (or a pullover, if you prefer).  
australasia_melbourne_activities.html:  Activities  When it comes to outdoor activities, Aussie rules football rules, at least in winter. In summer, cricket and tennis come to the fore. Cycling is popular - there are a number of cycling trails and the big daddy of them all is the Main Yarra Trail, which follows the Yarra River eastwards from the city for over 30km (19mi). Inline skating is also big, especially along the beachside path from Port Melbourne to St Kilda and Brighton.  There is interesting bushwalking in the parks and forest reserves surrounding Melbourne. Urbanites in the know power walk and jog around Albert Park Lake and the 'Tan' (around the Kings Domain and Royal Botanic Gardens), and there are several interesting heritage walks around the city.  The Yarra and the bay offer a multitude of water sports: think canoeing, fishing, boating, sailing, windsurfing and sailboarding. You can surf on the ocean sides of the Bellarine and Mornington peninsulas, or swim in the slightly dirty bathwater of the Bay or in one of the city's many indoor and outdoor public pools. Melbourne's snowfields are all within two to five hours' drive, and both downhill and cross-country skiing are available. Melbourne also has numerous public and private golf courses, several of which are world famous.  
australasia_melbourne_attractions.html:  Attractions  The city centre consists of a 7 sq km (3 sq mi) rectangular grid of streets bordered by the Yarra to the south, the Spencer St railway station to the west and the Fitzroy Gardens to the east. Two of Melbourne's most obvious central landmarks are the recently renovated Flinders St Station and the neo-Gothic St Paul's Cathedral. Controversial Federation Square (including the Ian Potter Centre, which houses the National Gallery of Victoria's Australian art collection), opened in late 2002 and inspires an instant love or hate reaction from most. North of these buildings lie the boom-years' Town Hall, the domed and pillared State Library building and the flamboyant City Baths.  Other city attractions include the bustling Queen Victoria Market on the northern fringe of the CBD; views from the 35th floor of the Sofitel Hotel at the eastern end of Collins St (especially from the toilets!); the mammoth Treasury and State Parliament House buildings; Scots and St Michael's churches; the 19th-century Block Arcade, which runs between Collins and Elizabeth Sts; the collection of Gothic-revival banks on the corner of Collins and Queen Sts; and the landmark Rialto Towers (boasting an observation deck) at the western end of Collins St. At the top end of Russell St there's the atmospheric Old Melbourne Gaol. Other historic buildings include the Old Customs House, St James Cathedral and the Old Royal Mint.  
australasia_melbourne_facts.html:  When to Go  Just about any time of year is a good one to visit, although summer is the most popular. Melbourne's climate has an unfortunate reputation: wet, windy, unpredictable and liable to extremes - very hot or very cold and often both on the same day! On the plus side, Melbourne's multitude of parks makes it a beautiful place to witness the changing seasons. It is rarely unbearably chilly - in winter the average temperature ranges between 6 C (43 F) and 13 C (55 F), the mercury rises above 35 C (95 F) only a few times each year and Melbourne's soggy reputation outstrips the reality - it receives only half the average rainfall of Sydney or Brisbane.     Events  Dividing the year into seasons, summer sees outdoor evening performances of plays, Carols by Candlelight at the Sidney Myer Music Bowl, cricket at the MCG, the Australian Open tennis championship, the Summer Music Festival at the Victorian Arts Centre, horse races at Hanging Rock, the St Kilda Festival, the Victoria St Lunar Festival, Chinese New Year celebrations, the Melbourne Food & Wine Festival and the three-week-long gay and lesbian Midsumma Festival. Autumn features the Moomba family festival, the Australian Grand Prix, the Greek Antipodes Festival, football, the International Flower and Garden Show and the International Comedy Festival.  Winter brings football, the Melbourne International Film Festival and the Melbourne Writers' Festival. Spring sees the football finals (phew), the Melbourne International Festival, the Royal Melbourne Show, Oktoberfest, the Spring Racing Carnival (including the Melbourne Cup), the Italian Lygon St Festa and the Hispanic Community Festival.    
australasia_melbourne_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  At the entrance to Westernport Bay, southeast of the city, Phillip Island is rugged and windswept with plenty of beaches, a fascinating collection of wildlife and several old-fashioned townships. The island's Penguin Parade is one of the country's most popular tourist attractions. Every evening the little penguins at Summerland Beach emerge from the sea and waddle up the beach to their nests, seemingly oblivious to the busloads of camera-toting tourists. In the southwest of the island, Seal Rocks is inhabited by Australia's largest colony of fur seals, or you can head inland to the Koala Conservation Centre and check out the little cuddly fellas with the sharp fingers.  The island's surf beach, Woolamai, is renowned for its strong rips, but there are also safer bay beaches for less-daring swimmers. Churchill Island is a small island with an historic homestead, beautiful gardens and a museum of old farming machinery, as well as some great short walks.  
australasia_new_south_wales_activities.html:  Activities  There are endless opportunities for bushwalking in NSW, with most national parks offering marked tracks or wilderness walking. Handy to Sydney, both the Blue Mountains and Royal national parks are popular, and if you're after a steeper climb try Kosciusko National Park, which has several breathtaking alpine trails. The extreme cliffs and crags of the Blue Mountains also create some challenging surfaces for rock climbing and abseiling.  The whole east coast is a surf safari, but tried and true hotspots are Coffs Harbour, Byron Bay and Noosa. If you want to carve up the slopes on a snowboard or just try skiing, make for the Snowy Mountains in winter. There's fantastic white-water rafting and canoeing at Coffs Harbour on the Nymboida River or on the upper Murray near Khancoban.  If that all sounds like too much, there's always whale-watching in Eden or the many grape varieties of the Hunter Valley for wine-tasting.  
australasia_new_south_wales_attractions.html:  Attractions  Built on the picturesque shores of Port Jackson, Sydney is all about superlatives - Australia's oldest city, largest metropolis and weirdest architecture (think the sea-shell Sydney Opera House and the Harbour Bridge that most locals call the Big Coat Hanger). Hosting the 2000 Olympics cemented Sydney's reputation as a world party city, but NSW's big smoke is also a big joke, with locals known for their real-estate obsession, mobile-phone toting and slavish devotion to the latest fads ('Did someone soy latte with a twist of lemon, darling?').   Sydney Harbour's sandstone headlands, dramatic cliffs and stunning beaches define the city. The grand dame of the sandy shores is Bondi, a sunny spread of coast hemmed with an eclectic mix of ice-cream parlours, designer cafes, surf stores, kosher purveyors and good old-fashioned fish and chip joints.  The city's focal point is Circular Quay, the site of Australia's first settlement and more recently the Museum of Contemporary Art and Sydney Opera House. The Rocks is Sydney's charming historic precinct, complete with cobblestoned streets, colonial buildings, a weekend market and the Sydney Observatory. Metamorphosing into a modern tourist and leisure zone during the 1980s, Darling Harbour is a progressive seaside development boasting the Sydney Aquarium, the Chinese Garden and the nearby Powerhouse Museum.   The Domain is an expanse of grassland established in the city as an area of public recreation, with its treasured Art Gallery of New South Wales featuring Australian, European, Japanese and tribal art along with some brilliant visiting exhibits. The Royal Botanic Gardens are east of Circular Quay and showcase the colony's first vegetable patch as well as a stunning collection of South Pacific plant life. The Domain and the gardens are prime territory for picnics and wedding photos.  
australasia_new_south_wales_environment.html:  Environment  More than three times the size of the United Kingdom and twice the size of Japan, New South Wales sits squarely on the east coast of Australia, wedged between southern rival Victoria and big brash Queensland in the north. NSW has enough personality to avoid being squeezed out by its neighbours and wraps itself around the nation's capital, Canberra. The Great Dividing Range cuts the eastern coast off from the inland, peaking at Mountain Kosciusko, Australia's largest mountain. Stretching almost unendingly to the west are the plains, while the northwest takes on the deep red soil of the outback.  New South Wales has its fair share of Australian flora and fauna. The gum tree, or eucalypt, has become synonymous with Australia; many of its 700-odd species can be found across NSW, from lush rainforests to arid deserts. Other common plants are wattle, grevilleas, hakeas, banksias, tea trees, bottlebrushes and the state flower, the waratah.  Many of the icons of the Australian bush can be spotted in NSW, including kangaroos, possums, wombats, koalas, platypuses, emus, echidnas and dingoes. Not to mention the plethora of interesting bird species, such as parrots, cockatoos and kookaburras. And then there's the countless species of indigenous reptiles and insect species. More infamous is Australia's dangerous fauna, including spiders (the redback and Sydney's funnel-web) and snakes (taipans and the tiger are found in NSW).  The state has over 140 national parks, varying from the peak of NSW's largest park, Kosciusko, to Sydney Harbour National Park (scattered pockets of bushland set in the city), to the outback expanses of the Mungo and Sturt national parks.  Being 'down under' means Australia's seasons are the antithesis of those in North America and Europe, with summer starting in December, autumn in March, winter in June and spring in September. That said, weather has more variations in NSW than meteorologists can poke their pointers at, but, as a general rule, the further north you are the warmer and more humid it'll get. The farther west you go, the drier it gets.  
australasia_new_south_wales_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Facts for the TravelerTime: Eastern Standard Time (UTC plus 10 hours)Electricity: 220-240VWeights & measures: metric When to Go  Balmy summers and mild winters in northern NSW make this region a good place to visit year-round, though Sydney's summers might be too hot to handle if you don't like the odd 40 C (104 F) day. The winter months of June, July and August are the only time to visit the outback (it's unpleasantly hot in summer) or to try out your slaloming on the state's southern ski slopes.     Events  After riotous New Year's Eve celebrations that feature spectacular pyrotechnics displays in Sydney, the first big celebration of the year is Australia Day, commemorating the arrival of the First Fleet in Sydney Cove. Aboriginal people celebrate an alternative occasion, Survival Day, or Invasion Day, on the same day, with a festival of music, dance and arts.  In February, Tamworth's Country Music Festival sends a loud 'yee-ha' out of the state's west and has the whole city bootscooting, while Sydney's Gay & Lesbian Mardi Gra concludes with the glitzy glam of the parade down Oxford St. Surfest, held each March in Newcastle, is Australia's longest-running professional surf carnival, and Byron Bay gets down and dirty in April with the East Coast Blues and Roots Festival.  Motor-racing enthusiasts get their motors running at the Bathurst 1000 touring car race in October. After Christmas celebrations, the Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race sets sail from the state capital and traces its way down the southern coast.    
australasia_new_south_wales_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If there was a wino's wonderland then the Hunter Valley - with over 60 vineyards in the Lower Hunter to taste, quaff and gulp your way through - would be it. Sydneysiders regularly make the weekend jaunt to the region's beaches, including the tranquil Myall Lakes National Park or popular Port Stephens, famous for its great surf and resident pod of dolphins.  In the convict days, Newcastle was known as 'the hell of NSW' as it housed only the hardest criminals, but these days Novacastrians have become a little friendlier and the city has a thriving music and arts scene; in particular it spawned rock titans, Silverchair.  The Hunter Valley is an easy 110km (68mi) drive from Sydney, with excellent rail and bus links if you want someone else to do the driving.  
australasia_new_zealand_activities.html:  Activities  New Zealand is a Mecca for thrill seekers and anyone interested in wide open spaces and physical activities. Above the ground you can go bungy jumping, parachuting, skydiving, abseiling and flying; on the ground you can go tramping, mountain bike riding, skiing, horse riding, rock climbing, and 'zorbing'; underground you can go surface caving, cave rafting, and hydro sliding; and on the water you can go jet-boarding, white-water sledging, rafting, boogey boarding, canoeing, kayaking, surfing, sur- rafting, and scuba diving. If there is a difficult and challenging way to get from one point to another you can do it somewhere, somehow, in New Zealand.  Despite the number of off-beat activities available, the most popular one is still tramping (Kiwi lingo for hiking or trekking). Thousands of kilometres of marked tracks and an efficient network of trampers' huts make it a viable activity for everyone from experienced hikers to country strollers. Be warned that some of the more popular tracks such as the Great Walks will be fairly crowded, especially in summer, so if you prefer solitude contact the nearest Department of Conservation office for further information on tramping in their area.  New Zealand is also one of the most popular destinations in the southern hemisphere for skiing and other winter sports because of its reliable and abundant snowfall. This usually occurs between June and October. There are a number of ski-package tours available and a variety of ski resorts scattered throughout both the north and south islands.  
australasia_new_zealand_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital city of New Zealand, Wellington (population 345,000) is situated on a splendid harbour at the southern tip of the North Island. Often maligned by its northern counterparts for its ill-tempered weather - the winds are often of gale-force calibre in winter - Wellington is a lively city of culture and arts (with festivals almost every month), and great ethnic restaurants and cafes. It is also home to the country's government and national treasures.  Buildings of interest include the modernist Beehive (the executive wing of Parliamen, the old Government Building (one of the largest all-wooden buildings in the world), the National Library (housing the most comprehensive collection of books in the country), and the Katherine Mansfield Memorials (the property where the famous author was born in 1888). In addition, there are museums (including the excellent new Te Papa museum), a zoo and stunning views of the city from the top of Mt Victoria. Cuba Street has great shopping, Thorndon has historic sites of interest, Lambton Quay is the primary business street and Mt Victoria is the place to go for cheap accommodation and dining. The treetop walk at the Native Plant Museum is also worth the time.  
australasia_new_zealand_environment.html:  Environment  New Zealand is in the South Pacific Ocean, 1600km south-east of Australia. It stretches 1600km from north to south and consists of two large islands and a smattering of smaller islands - some hugging its shores, others hundreds of km away. The North Island (115,000 sq km) and the South Island (151,000 sq km) are the two major land masses; the next largest is Stewart Island (1700 sq km), which lies directly beneath the South Island. The North Island has a number of large volcanoes (including the currently active Mount Ruapehu) and highly active thermal areas, while the South Island boasts the Southern Alps - a spine of magnificent mountains running almost its entire length. Another notable feature of New Zealand is its myriad rivers and lakes: notably the Whanganui River, Lake Taupo and the breathtaking lakes Waikaremoana and Wanaka.  Much of New Zealand's flora is endemic and its extent is enormous: giant gum-producing kauri and kohekohe forests; rainforest dominated by rimu, beech, tawa, matai and rata; ferns and flax; alpine and subalpine herb fields; and scrub and tussock. One of the most noticeable plants is the pohutukawa (known as the New Zealand Christmas tree) which detonates with brilliant red flowers around December. About 10 to 15% of the total land area of New Zealand is covered with native flora, the bulk protected in national parks and reserves.  Curiously, native fauna is limited, with the only indigenous mammals being bats. Bird life, however, has thrived. The most common species include the morepork, tui, weka and the kea, a clamant and mischievous bird which likes nothing better than to sashay up to humans, tip over rubbish bins and slide 'kee-aaaing' down corrugated roofs at night. Introduced species - pigs, goats, possums, dogs, cats, deer and the ubiquitous sheep - are found throughout New Zealand, but their proliferation in the wild has had a deleterious effect on the environment: over 150 native plants - 10% of the total number of native species - and many native birds are presently threatened with extinction. New Zealand's offshore waters hold a variety of fish, including tuna, marlin, snapper, trevally, kahawai and shark; while its marine mammals - dolphins, seals and whales - attract nature-lovers from around the world. There are 14 national, 20 forest, three maritime and two marine parks, plus two World Heritage Areas: Tongariro National Park in the North Island and Te Waihipouna-mu in the South Island.  Lying between 34S and 47S, New Zealand sits squarely in the 'roaring forties' latitude, which means a prevailing and continual wind blows over the country from west to east; this can range from a gentle breeze in summer to a buffeting, roof-stripping gale in winter. The North Island and South Island, because of their different geological features, have two distinct patterns of rainfall: in the South Island, the Southern Alps act as a barrier for the moisture-laden winds from the Tasman Sea, creating a wet climate to the west of the mountains and a dry climate to the east; while the North Island's rainfall is more evenly distributed without a comparable geological feature such as the Alps. Temperatures are a few degrees cooler in the South Island, and both islands receive snow in winter. Winter falls in the months of June through August and summer from December through February. It is important to remember that New Zealand's climate is maritime, rather than continental, which means the weather can change with amazing rapidity and consequence. The busy tourist season falls in the warmer months between November and April, though ski resorts, such as Queenstown, are full during winter.  
australasia_new_zealand_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: only a valid passport is necessary for citizens of most countriesHealth risks:Amoebic Meningitis from bathing in natural hot thermal poolsTime: GMT/UTC +12(two hours ahead of Australian Eastern Standard Time)Electricity: 240V AC, 50 HzWeights & measures: metric When to Go  The weather is never so miserable that there's no point in going to New Zealand: there are things to see and do all year-round. The warmer months (November to April) are busiest, especially during the school holidays from December 20 to the end of January. Ski resort towns are obviously busier during the winter months. If you're travelling during peak periods (especially the Christmas season) it's best to book ahead, as much accommodation and transport fills up. It's probably more pleasant to visit either before or after this hectic period, when the weather is still warm and there aren't as many other travellers around.     Events  Some of the noteworthy cultural events include: Summer City Programme (January to February; Wellington) which is a series of festivals around the city; Marlborough Food & Wine Festival (2nd week in February; Blenheim); International Festival of the Arts (February, even-numbered years only; Wellington), an entire month of national and international culture; Golden Shears Sheep-Shearing Contest (March; Masterton), a must for lovers of sheep, scat and sweat; and Canterbury Show Week (November; Christchurch), which has agricultural exhibits, rides and local entertainment.    
australasia_new_zealand_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  A succession of picturesque bays leads to Whangaparaoa Bay (Cape Runaway), 50km (31mi) west of the North Island's East Cape. The beaches are deeply shelved and littered with driftwood, and the old Anglican church, nestled under Norfolk pines on a lone promontory, should not be missed. Cape Runaway can only be reached by foot, and it's advisable to seek permission before going on private land.  
australasia_papua_new_guinea_activities.html:  Activities  Considering the vast areas of mountainous terrain, where the only way to get from village to village is to fly or walk, it's surprising that bushwalking in PNG has not caught on the same way trekking has in the Himalayas. The best-known walking trail is the Kokoda Trail, but there are literally hundreds of other options because the entire country is criss-crossed by tracks. The most interesting choices are arguably Lake Kopiago to Oksapmin, Mt Wilhelm to Madang and Wedau to Alotau. A couple hundred people canoe down the Sepik each year, but you have to be fit, independent and well-equipped to tackle it. Foreign tour operators offer fabulous rafting down PNG's turbulent mountain rivers, but there are no regular local operators yet.   Diving in PNG is reputed to be as good as it is in the Caribbean and the Great Barrier Reef. Major dive sites include Kavieng, Kimbe, Lae, Lorengau, Milne Bay, Port Moresby and the sublime Wuvulu Island. There is the possibility of good surf at Kavieng between November and February and around Wewak from September to January. Good swimming beaches are bountiful.  
australasia_papua_new_guinea_attractions.html:  Attractions  Port Moresby (population 145,000), the capital of PNG and the major exit/entry point for travellers, is located on a superb natural harbour on the southern coast of New Guinea. Much drier than the rest of the country, Port Moresby often suffers from extended droughts which can lead to water restrictions. A sprawling, some suggest crime-addled city (razor wire and snapping guard dogs are everywhere), Port Moresby is probably more bark than bite and does have some interesting things to see and do.  These include: Boroko (an important shopping centre that includes a number of restaurants and bars, banks and department stores); Gordons (an otherwise lacklustre area enlivened by Gordons Market, one of the largest and busiest in the country); Parliament House (the new parliament building, built in Maprik haus tambaran or spirit-house style); National Museum & Art Gallery (offers excellent coverage of the country's geography, history, culture, flora and fauna); Idler's Beach (a popular swimming spot east of Port Moresby); and Sinasi Reef and Daugo Island (a beautiful reef and white, sandy beaches) are popular excursions from Port Moresby. Hanuacraft and PNG Arts are recommended if you intend to buy local arts and crafts. Note that accommodation is expensive and should be booked in advance.  Central Province covers the narrow coastal strip along the southern coast from the Gulf of Papua almost to the eastern end of the mainland, plus the southern half of the central mountain range. North-east of Port Moresby is the spectacular Rouna Falls and nearby Varirata National Park, the first national park in PNG. There is a variety of interesting and clearly marked walking trails in the park and some excellent lookouts back to Port Moresby and the coast. North of Port Moresby is Brown River, a pleasant spot for swimming, rafting and picnics. The Kokoda Trail, which links the northern and southern coasts, is the most popular (but not the most spectacular) walking track in the country; its major drawcard is the emotional pull of its history (it was the site of fierce fighting between the Japanese and Allied forces in WWII).  
australasia_papua_new_guinea_environment.html:  Environment  Papua New Guinea lies south of the equator and north of Australia. It's the last of a string of islands spilling down from South-East Asia into the Pacific, and comprises the eastern half of the island of New Guinea and a collection of surrounding islands. The country is dominated by a central spine of mountains, the Owen Stanley Range, with many peaks over 4000m (13,120ft). Three quarters of PNG is covered by tropical rainforests, and the remainder is made up of delta plains, flat grassland and mangrove swamps. The principal rivers include the Fly, Sepik and Ramu. The major islands of New Ireland, Bougainville and New Britain are surrounded by striking coral formations and are often scenes of unpredictable natural violence (in 1994, the once-beautiful New Britain town of Rabaul was destroyed by the Tuvurvur eruption).  There are close to 9000 species of plants in PNG, most of them found in lowland rainforests. Around 250 species of mammals live in the islands, mostly bats and rats, but also including marsupials such as the tree kangaroo. There are also two kinds of echidnas (spiny anteaters). The real treat however is the 700 species of birds. There are more parrot, pigeon and kingfisher species - from huge crowned pigeons to delicate pygmy parrots - than anywhere else in the world. Other notable birds are giant cassowaries, kokomos (hornbills) and cockatoos. The highlights of the insect kingdom are the world's largest butterfly, the Queen Alexandra Birdwing (the first collected specimen was felled by a shotgun blast), and scarab beetles (which are often used as body ornaments).  Papua New Guinea has only four national parks, including Varirata National Park and McAdam National Park, but more have been proposed. The major problems facing the environment and its flora and fauna are logging and heavy-metal pollution from copper mines such as Panguna on Bougainville Island (currently closed) and Ok Tedi in the Star Mountains.  The climate is typically monsoonal: hot, humid and wet year-round. There are defined wet (December to March) and dry (May to October) seasons, but both are subject to regional variation (especially in the islands). Rainfall, for example, varies tremendously: Port Moresby may experience an annual rainfall of 1000mm (39in) while Lae has over 4500mm (176in). In extreme rainfall areas, such as West New Britain, the annual rainfall can exceed 6m (20ft) a year. Temperatures on the coast are reasonably stable all year (hovering between 25 and 30 C/77 and 86 F) but humidity and winds are changeable. Temperatures drop at higher altitudes, and it can be very chilly in the Highlands.  
australasia_papua_new_guinea_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: 60-day visa on entry in any 12 months period, however obtaining visa prior to arrival recommended.Health risks: Malaria, dengue fever and diarrhoeaTime: UTC plus 10 hoursElectricity: 240V, 50 HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 40,000 visitors per year When to Go  The climate is the main consideration in deciding when to visit Papua New Guinea. You'll probably want to avoid rainy seasons (although a good tropical downpour is a sight to be seen) but they vary across the country. In most places the wet season is December to March, the dry season from May to October. During the two transition months (April and November), the weather can't make up its mind which way to go and tends to be unpleasantly still and sticky. The most notable variations on this pattern are Lae and Alotau where May to October is the wet (and we mean wet) season.     Events  Each of the 20 provinces of PNG has its own provincial government day and these are good opportunities to enjoy sing sings (traditional ceremonies and dances). Unfortunately, these are local affairs with no fixed schedules and information about their timing and whereabouts is often only relayed by word-of-mouth. Shows and festivals are held on weekends, while a provincial government day will usually fall on a Friday or Monday. Some of the events to look out for include: Port Moresby Show (traditional and modern events; mid-June); Mt Hagen Show (a big gathering of clans with traditional dances and dress; late August); Independence Day (festivals and sing-sings celebrated nationwide; 16 September); and Malangan Festival (two-week festival including the famous tree-dancers; 16 September).    
australasia_papua_new_guinea_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Lying in the centre of Papua New Guinea is the little-visited town of Wabag. Getting there is a highlight: the road climbs almost 3000m (9840ft), winding through some of the most heavily furrowed mountain ranges in the country. The town is a magnet for young artists of the region and their work is often displayed in the local gallery. Accommodation in Wabag is in lodgings built from local bush materials, and is surrounded by orchid-dotted gardens.  
australasia_perth_activities.html:  Activities   Surfing and swimming at the city's beaches are favoured activities; but Rottnest Island has good diving and fishing, and the picturesque Avon River is a popular canoeing spot. You can also get out on the ocean by renting a catamaran at the South Perth foreshore, or asking around Perth's yachting clubs for volunteer spots on racing yachts.  There are a number of activities that bring you into contact with marine mammals in and around Perth, including watching for humpback whales returning to Antarctic waters after wintering in the ocean off north-western Australia. The Darling Ranges are famous for their geological diversity and around Perth you can explore evidence of the break up of Gondwanaland (formerly one of two ancient supercontinents).  
australasia_perth_attractions.html:  Attractions  Check out the superb views from Kings Park, the lungs of the city centre. The park includes a 17 hectare (42 acre) Botanic Garden and a section of natural bushland, which represents Perth as it was before the white fella got here. In spring, there's a cultivated display of Western Australia's famed wild flowers. The park also has some pleasant bike tracks - you can hire bikes just outside the park - and a coffee shop.  
australasia_perth_facts.html:  When to Go  Spring (September to November) and autumn (March to May) are the best times to visit, as Perth experiences hot, dry summers and mild, but rainy, winters. One peculiarity of the local weather is the breeze that blows in from the sea in the late afternoon - call it the 'Fremantle Doctor', and you might as well wear a t-shirt saying 'I'm not from around here'.     Events  Every year around February/March the Festival of Perth offers entertainment in the form of music, drama, dance, visual art and films. The Northbridge Festival is hosted at the same time. In early June, West Week is held to celebrate WA's foundation - there are historical re-enactments, arts and crafts exhibitions, concerts and sporting events. The Perth Royal Show takes place every September while the Artrage Festival is in October.    
australasia_perth_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This sandy island, 19km (12mi) off the coast of Fremantle, is home to small indigenous marsupials known as quokkas. These were mistakenly identified as rats in 1696 by the Dutch explorer de Vlamingh, who named the island 'Rats Nest'. The Rottnest settlement was established as a prison for Aborigines in the 19th century, but by 1920 the prison had fallen into disuse and the island had become an escape for Perth society. There is virtually no motorised traffic on the island - bicycle is the main means of transport. The beaches are superb with some of the southernmost coral reefs in the world and crystal-clear waters.  There are a couple of places to stay, including a campground, on Rottnest, and a few restaurants. You can get to Rottnest by plane from Perth, or by ferry from Perth or Fremantle.  
australasia_sydney_activities.html:  Activities  Sydney's sunshine, parks and can-do attitude add up to plenty of ways to get the heart-rate up. The harbour offers sailing, canoeing, and windsurfing opportunities. Spit Bridge and Balmoral are the best places to hire equipment. Good surf beaches include Bondi and Tamarama on the south shore and Narrabeen, North Avalon and Palm Beach on the north shore. Manly is the centre of Sydney's diving scene. The harbour beaches at Camp Cove, Nielsen Park, Balmoral and Chinaman's Beach offer picturesque swimming, but no waves. If you want to go bodysurfing, head for Bondi, Tamarama and Bronte on the south shore, and just about any of the beaches lining the 30km (19mi) stretch of coast from Manly to Palm Beach on the north shore. Or try one of the 100 public swimming pools; the Andrew 'Boy' Charlton is deservedly famous.  There are plenty of coastal bushwalks in the Royal National, Ku-ring-gai Chase and Sydney Harbour national parks. The 8km (5mi) Manly Scenic Walkway follows the harbour from the north shore beachside suburb to Spit Bridge on Middle Harbour. Another spectacular but much shorter walk is along the cliffs from Bronte to Bondi Beach. You can hire horses to ride in Centennial Park, the large park between Paddington and Bondi. The park vies with Bondi and Manly promenades as the favourite jogging and inline skating spot. There are also over 80 golf courses in Sydney, and plenty of tennis courts for hire.  
australasia_sydney_attractions.html:  Attractions  The harbour is the defining characteristic of the city. Criss-crossed by ferries and carpeted with yachts on weekends, it is both the city playground and a major port. Its multiple sandstone headlands, dramatic cliffs, rocky islands and stunning bays and beaches make it one of the most beautiful stretches of water in the world, and offer a close-up of Aussie beach culture at its best. Officially called Port Jackson, the harbour stretches some 20km (12mi) inland to join the mouth of the Parramatta River. The most scenic area is on the ocean side of the bridge. The Sydney Harbour National Park protects the scattered pockets of bushland around the harbour and offers good walking tracks. The best way to experience the harbour is to go sailing, but if you're lacking nautical skills there are plenty of ways to enjoy it. Try catching the Manly ferry, swimming at Nielsen Park, walking from Manly to Spit Bridge, having a drink at Watsons Bay, dining with a view at Milsons Point, Balmoral or Circular Quay, or cruising to the heads on the Bounty.  
australasia_sydney_facts.html:  When to Go  The best times to visit are the shoulder seasons of spring and autumn, especially around March-April or October-November. These seasons are a delight, with clear, warm days and mild nights. Sydney is blessed with a temperate climate and averages summer temperatures of around 25 C (77 F). It can get up to 40 C (104 F) on a hot day and high humidity can make it oppressive, but torrential downpours often break the heat between October and March. Winters are cool rather than cold. Beach lovers unperturbed by the hazards of lizard-skin and melanomas should come between December and February.     Events  The huge Sydney Festival takes up most of January. It's the umbrella for a number of events, from open-air concerts in The Domain, to street theatre and fireworks. The Great Ferry Boat Race celebrates Australia Day in January. Indie film festival Tropfest happens in February, as does the outlandish Gay & Lesbian Mardi Gras. The more traditional 12-day Royal Easter Show brings the country to the city in March/April. The Sydney Writers Festival brings international scribes into the city in May, and hot on its heels is the Sydney Film Festival, reeling in the crowds in June.  Around 20,000 compete in the annual 14km (8.5mi) City to Surf Run in August. And sports fans are in for a treat with the Rugby League Grand Final in September. The Manly International Jazz Festival tunes up in October and in the same month gets frivolous with the Sydney Comedy Festival. The city's Christmas orphans traditionally gather on Bondi Beach on Christmas Day, drinking up a storm and keeping the life-savers and police busier than they would like to be on a public holiday. After a short nap, they do it all over again on New Years Eve. Those scared of the water usually do their end-of-the-year hellraising in The Rocks or Kings Cross. The Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race starts in late December and continues through to January.   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 26 January - Australia Day March/April - Easter 25 April - Anzac Day second Monday in June - Queen's Birthday first Monday in August - Bank Holiday first Monday in October - Labour Day 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to SydneyTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
australasia_sydney_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park covers 150 sq km (60 sq mi) of sandstone bushland at the mouth of the Hawkesbury River, 24km (15mi) north of Sydney. The park has over 100km (62mi) of shoreline, plenty of forest and wildlife, a number of walking tracks and some magnificent Aboriginal rock art. Elevated parts of the park offer superb views across Pittwater towards the northernmost suburbs of Sydney.  
caribbean_anguilla_activities.html:  Activities  Anguilla has plenty of beautiful beaches should the mood strike you to take a dip or lather yourself with tanning butter. Sandy Ground has calm turquoise waters, as do the impressive sweeps at Shoal Bay East and Rendezvous Bay. Other notable beaches include Meads Bay and Shoal Bay West. Top honors in the Valley area go to Crocus Bay.  Anguilla has clear water suitable for diving and snorkeling. Since the mid-1980s a number of ships have been deliberately sunk in Anguillian waters to create dive sites; they lie on sandy bottoms at depths of 35-75ft (11-23m). Nearby islets popular for diving include Prickly Pear Cays and Sandy Islands.  
caribbean_anguilla_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Valley, the island's only real town, is the geographic, commercial and political center of Anguilla. It's a small, rambling place that appears to consist of little more than a series of mini-malls. The lack of quaint colonial government buildings stems from the British decision to move its administration to St Kitts way back in 1825.  Far more visually stimulating are the exterior of Wallblake House, one of the oldest structures on the island, and the interior of the adjacent church, which has a unique design incorporating a decorative stone front, open-air sides and a ceiling shaped like the hull of a ship. The Anguilla National Trust Museum, which displays changing exhibits of Anguilla's history and natural environment, is also worth a visit.  
caribbean_anguilla_environment.html:  Environment  Anguilla lies 200mi (320km) east of Puerto Rico, at the northeastern corner of the Caribbean. Its nearest neighbor is St Martin, just 5mi (8km) south. Just 16mi (25km) long and 3mi (5km) wide, Anguilla looks a little like a compass needle pointing northeast-southwest. The terrain is relatively flat; the highest of the island's rolling hills, Crocus Hill, reaches a mere 213ft (65m).  Anguilla's vegetation is a dryland type that's been degraded by overgrazing, particularly by free-ranging goats. The vegetation is sparse and predominantly scrub. Sea grape and coconut palms grow in beach areas, as do poisonous manchineel trees.  Although most are migratory, in all about 80 species of birds are found on Anguilla. Two colorful year-round residents are the black and yellow bananaquits and the green Antillean crested hummingbird. The island's numerous salt ponds attract egrets, herons, stilts, yellowlegs and white-cheeked pintail ducks. Anguilla's national bird is the turtle dove.  The average annual temperature is 81 F (27 C), with the hottest weather coming during hurricane season from June to October. The rainy season is from August to November.  
caribbean_anguilla_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US and Canadian citizens can enter Anguilla with proof of citizenship in the form of a birth certificate with a raised seal accompanied by an official photo ID such as a driver's license. Citizens of most other nations only require passports, but not visas.Health risks: Sunburn, diarrhea and intestinal parasitesTime: GMT/UTC minus four hoursElectricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & measures: ImperialTelephoning: From North America, dial 1 + 264 + the seven-digit local number. From elsewhere, dial your country's international direct dialing prefix + 1 + 264 + the seven-digit local number. If you have trouble getting through, try substituting 809 for 264. When to Go  If you want to avoid the rainy season (August to November) and the hurricane season (June to October), Anguilla is best visited in the winter - when prices are highest. In the summer months (June to August) the weather is wetter and hotter, and the costs are lower.     Events  There's an annual Anguillian Cultural Festival in February. Moonsplash is an annual reggae festival held in March in Rendezvous Bay. But the big party in Anguilla is Carnival, a week-long festival that begins the weekend prior to August Monday (the first Monday in August). Carnival includes costumed parades, music and dancing. If you tire of shaking your booty you can cheer on the locals as they buffet the waves with their fishing boats during Race Week, which is held at the same time as Carnival.    
caribbean_anguilla_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Sandy Island, lying a mile (1.6km) off Sandy Ground, is a small islet consisting of little more than some fine sand and a couple of coconut palms - you can walk around the whole thing in just 10 minutes. The island is surrounded by shallow reefs that offer reasonable snorkeling, with waving finger corals, sea fans and small tropical fish. You can arrange the five-minute boat ride to the islet at Sandy Ground.  
caribbean_antigua_and_barbuda_activities.html:  Activities  Most of Antigua's many beaches, with their white or light golden sands, are protected by coral reefs, and all are officially public. Prime spots include the adjacent Dickenson and Runaway beaches on the eastern coast, Deep Bay and Hawksbill Beach to the west of St John's, and Darkwood Beach to the south of Jolly Harbour. On the eastern coast, Half Moon Bay is a top contender. In the English Harbour area, Galleon Beach and secluded Pigeon Beach are good sites. The far ends of some public beaches, including the northern end of Dickenson, are favored by topless bathers; nude bathing is also practiced along a section of Hawksbill Beach.  Antigua has some excellent diving, with coral canyons, wall drops and sea caves. Marine life includes turtles, sharks, barracuda and reef fish. Antigua's sheltered western coast is good for inexperienced windsurfers, while the exposed eastern coast has onshore winds good for slalom and wave-slalom sailing. The other major watersport is game fishing - there are plenty of marlin, tuna and wahoo.  The historical society, which operates the Museum of Antigua & Barbuda, sponsors a monthly cultural or environmental theme hike. Walks average about 90 minutes in duration and typically include visits to old estates or interesting landscapes.  Small, low-key Barbuda is a good place for travelers craving quiet, uncrowded spaces. There's excellent bird watching at Codrington Lagoon, home to a large colony of frigate birds. The island also offers places to snorkel, relax and bake in the sun.  
caribbean_antigua_and_barbuda_attractions.html:  Attractions  St John's is Antigua's capital and commercial center, home to 30,000 people - over a third of the country's population. It's also the island's tourist center, but most of the city remains unaffected by international influence, remaining solidly West Indian in flavor. St John's tourist activity is confined to the harborfront complexes of Heritage Quay, a favorite with cruise ship passengers, and the more rustic Redcliffe Quay, where shops, restaurants and galleries inhabit restored stone buildings and wooden huts.  
caribbean_antigua_and_barbuda_environment.html:  Environment  Lying near the northeastern corner of the Caribbean, Antigua is about 300mi (480km) east of Puerto Rico. Barbuda, its sister island, is 25mi (40km) north of Antigua. Antigua is a shapeless blob, its shore indented with many bays. The southwestern corner is the hilliest part of the island, rising to 1320ft (400m) at Boggy Peak, Antigua's highest point. The rest of the island is mostly undulating plains and scrubland. Barbuda is a low-lying coral island; its highest point is a mere 145ft (45m). The west side of the island encompasses the expansive Codrington Lagoon. The country's boundaries also include Redonda, an uninhabited rocky islet, less than 1 sq mi in size, lying 25mi (40km) southwest of Antigua.  As a consequence of colonial-era deforestation, most of Antigua's vegetation is dry-land scrub. The area supports the fourth-largest mangrove system in the Lesser Antilles.  The island's marshes and salt ponds attract stilts, egrets, ducks and pelicans, while hummingbirds hang about the gardens. Guiana Island, off the northeastern coast of Antigua, has one of the country's last remaining tracts of forest and is the sole habitat for the tropical mockingbird. Guiana also supports Antigua's largest colony of nesting seabirds, including tropicbirds, roseate terns, brown noddies and endangered whistling ducks. Barbuda's Codrington Lagoon has the largest frigate-bird colony in the Lesser Antilles. One of the world's rarest snakes, the Antiguan racer, is found on nearby Great Bird Island.  
caribbean_antigua_and_barbuda_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visitors from the USA, Canada and the UK may enter the country for stays of less than six months with either a valid passport or a birth certificate with a raised seal and a photo ID. Most other visitors, including citizens of Australia, New Zealand and Western European countries, must have passports but do not need visas. Officially all visitors need a round-trip or onward ticket.Health Risks: Sunburn, diarrhea and intestinal parasitesTime: GMT/UTC minus four hoursElectricity: Most hotels operate on 110V AC, 60 Hz, though some places use 220V.Weights & measures: ImperialTelephoning: From North America, dial 1 + 268 + the seven-digit local number. From elsewhere, dial your country's international direct dialing prefix + 1 + 268 + the seven-digit local number. When to Go  Antigua and Barbuda are best visited during the cool and dry winter months (mid-December to mid-April), the peak tourist season. In January and February, the coolest months, the average daily high temperature is 81 F (27 C).  The islands get even hotter in the summer. In July and August, the warmest months, the average daily high is 86 F (30 C). It's less dry in the autumn (September to November), during the rainy season, though Antigua's fairly dry year-round.     Events  Antigua's Sailing Week is a major week-long yachting event that begins on the last Sunday in April, attracting about 150 boats. In addition to a series of five races, there are rum parties and a formal ball, with most activities taking place at Nelson's Dockyard and Falmouth Harbour. In June, Barbuda has a celebration of its own called Caribara.   Carnival, Antigua's big annual festival, is held from the end of July and culminates in a parade on the first Tuesday in August. Most Carnival activity takes place in St John's. Calypso music, steel bands, masqueraders, floats and street 'jump-ups' are all part of the celebrations. If you have enough energy by the last day to be up and dancing in the streets at 4am you can jump up during J'Overt, the climax of Carnival. The other major musical event is the annual Antiguan Jazz Festival, which takes place in October.    
caribbean_antigua_and_barbuda_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Runaway Bay is a quiet area with an attractive white-sand beach, calm waters and a handful of small, reasonably priced hotels. Note, however, that the north end of the beach has lost virtually all of its sand since Hurricane Luis, and the process of regeneration has been slow. But from Runaway Beach Club south, there still is a gorgeous sandy strand and precious few beachgoers to share it with. Although the area can seem quite sleepy, those staying here who want more action can simply wander over to the adjacent Dickenson Bay. A channel dug a few years back for a marina project (which was halted after hitting rock) cuts off shoreline access between Runaway and Dickenson bays, but it's just a short walk along the road between the two areas.  Pelicans dive for food in the inlet created by the new channel and also along Corbinson Point, the rocky outcropping at the north end of the bay. The point is the site of an old fort, but there's little left to see there. A large salt pond stretches along the inland side of Runaway Bay, and in the evening egrets come to roost at the pond's southern end.  
caribbean_aruba_activities.html:  Activities  Aruba has the best beaches in the Dutch Caribbean and arguably some of the finest in the region, especially if you don't mind lounging in the shadow of large hotels. The island's most popular beaches are along the developed stretch of the reef-protected leeward coast, northeast of Oranjestad. They include the resort areas of Druif Beach, Palm Beach and Eagle Beach. Less crowded beaches include Arasji Beach, on the island's northwestern tip; the cove at Baby Beach, at the island's southeastern extremity; and undeveloped Boca Grandi, one of the few places to swim on the exposed northern coast.  Aruba has fantastic windsurfing, thanks to consistently strong trade winds. The favored spot for experienced surfers is Fisherman's Hut, just north of Palm Beach. Malmok, just a little further north, is a good place to find your windsurfing wings while Boca Grandi and Bachelor's Beach in the southeast are popular with those wanting a little more elbow room. There's plenty of windsurfing gear for hire. Good swimmers can try boogie-boarding at Andicuri on the central northern coast.  There's diving and snorkeling on the reef that runs along Aruba's leeward coast. Visibility can often reach 100ft (30m) and there's plenty of marine life, but the diving is not as spectacular as that available off neighboring Bonaire and Cura ao. The WWII-era wrecks of a scuttled German freighter and a tanker, both off the coast of Malmok, are favored dive spots. Snorkeling spots include Boca Grandi, which has good elkhorn coral, Palm Beach and Baby Beach.   Yachts offer coastal cruises with snorkeling and swimming stops and are also available for private charter. If you're interested in deep-sea fishing, you can catch bonito, kingfish and marlin. Naturalist-led hiking tours can be arranged through the Aruba Tourism Authority, and there are horses for rent at Daimari in the island's north.  
caribbean_aruba_attractions.html:  Attractions  Aruba's bright and breezy pastel-colored capital is on the island's southern leeward coast, just southeast of the main resort area. It has a distinctly Dutch flavor, thanks largely to the modern vogue for fake colonial architecture. Most tourists visit to scour its boutiques and duty-free shops, but it has three small museums worth a peek if you're interested in the island's history. The small Archaeological Museum has worthy exhibits on Aruba's Arawak inhabitants. The Museo Arubano, located in the restored 18th-century Fort Zoutman, does a passable job explaining Aruba's pre-European and colonial eras. And, if you want to see what jingled in the pockets of the oldendays folk, the Numismatic Museum has a vast collection of coinage from over 400 countries, some of which was salvaged from shipwrecks in the region.  Once you're out of the shopping zone, Oranjestad becomes a shabbier, livelier prospect. Local bars, sometimes just holes in the wall, are a good place to prop, watch some sport and drink beer with the locals.  
caribbean_aruba_environment.html:  Environment  Aruba is a wonky parallelogram measuring 20 miles (32km) long and 6 miles (10km) across with about the same area as Washington, DC. Aruba's location, 19 miles (30km) north of Venezuela and 990 miles (1590km) south of Miami in the balmy Caribbean Sea, is where the DC analogies come tumbling down. The island is scrubby and pretty flat, reaching somewhat pathetically for the sky from 620ft (188m) Mount Jamanota.  Tortured divi-divi trees, always stretching to the west, and cacti, from thumbnail to telephone-pole size, are Aruba's prominent vegetation. Hardy salt-tolerant wildflowers brighten up the arid and stony hills. Introduced flowering plants such as bougainvillea, hibiscus, oleander, frangipani and poinsettia eke out an existence where freshwater is available. Wildlife is restricted to lizards, goats, donkeys and nocturnal casino-crawlers. Birdlife includes the cheeky bananaquit, which will sneak the sugar from your poolside table, the irrepressible chuchubi (a type of mockingbird) and the shy but super-bright troupial, plus seabirds and migratory visitors.  Aruba is warm, dry and soothed by trade winds year round, with daily highs generally between 80-90 F (27-33 C). The hottest months are August and September, the coolest January and February. Rainfall is scant, which accounts for the island's arid landscape. The precious few clouds that pass this way drop their meager load between October and January. Aruba is outside the hurricane belt, so there's no need to worry about a big blow during the June-to-November Caribbean hurricane season.  
caribbean_aruba_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Aruba is no stickler for visas. US and Canadian citizens can visit with proof of citizenship, such as a photo ID and a birth certificate. Most other nationalities require just a passport. A roundtrip or onward ticket is required of all visitors.Health risks: SunburnTime: Atlantic Standard Time (GMT/UTC minus 4 hours)Electricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & measures: Imperial, with some metricTelephone: Country code 297 When to Go  The peak tourist season is between mid-December and mid-April, but this has more to do with the weather in North America and Europe than it does with the weather on Aruba. It's therefore best to visit outside this period, when you can expect room rates to be almost halved.     Events  Aruba's Carnival takes place over several weeks prior to Lent (usually in February). It's celebrated with children's parades, masquerades, musical competitions, plenty of dancing and a 'jump-up.' The most intense celebrations take place in Oranjestad. New Year's Day is welcomed with midnight fireworks to ward off evil spirits, while wandering minstrels serenade houses and hotels. There's a Summer Jam at the end of April with a carnival and jazz bands. The Hi-Winds Pro-Am Windsurfing Competition is held at Eagle Beach in June. In late June, there's the harvest festival of Dera Gai - it used to involve the burying of a rooster, but these days a gourd is substituted. Sint Nicolaas Day (5 December) is a Dutch transplant: Sint Nicolaas is a Santa Claus figure who arrives with his un-PC Zwarte Pieten (Black Petes) who help him distribute candy and gifts to children gathered in Oranjestad.    
caribbean_aruba_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Hidden away in the outer reaches of Arikok National Park, these two cave complexes are just the place to take your special someone if cocktails and in-room spas just aren't making the play. Even with fresh batteries in your flashlight, the caves are damp, dark and batty enough to ensure you'll want to hold hands at the very least.  Guadirikiri even has a bona fide legend to go along with its spookiness: the headstrong daughter of an Indian chief and her unsuitable suitor are said to have been trapped within the cave and left to perish but, defiant after the end, their love-boosted spirits burst through the roof of the caves and shot up to heaven.  
caribbean_bahamas_activities.html:  Activities  The islands offer some of the best snorkeling and scuba diving in the world, with 2500 miles (4023km) of ocean wall drop-offs, underwater caverns and blue holes - fathomless water-filled sinkholes that open to submarine caves. Every island is rimmed by coral reefs, and the waters offer exceptional visibility and year-round temperatures that make wetsuits unnecessary. Under the surface you'll see a dazzling display of colorful sealife, ranging from the exotic to the eerie: moray eels, grunts, barracudas, stingrays, turtles, queen triggerfish, sand tigers, parrotfish and angelfish flashing their neons, and an impressive array of hard and soft coral formations totaling an estimated 5% of the world's coral reefs. There are plentiful ship and plane wrecks to explore - even a train off Eleuthera. Some islanders believe that part of the 'lost' city of Atlantis lies just off the Biminis. Above all, the Bahamas is renowned for wall dives along the sheer-faced trenches at the edges of the Bahama Banks.  New Providence offers superb diving and snorkeling close to shore, including such noted sites as the Clifton Wall, off the southwestern coast; Balmoral Island, off the northern coast; and Razorback, named for the arcing ridge of coral-covered limestone that rises from the sand-bottom before plummeting into the Tongue of the Ocean to the southwest. Elbow Cay, just off Abaco, has excellent reefs on the Atlantic side. The calmer waters near Hope Town and the northern tip of the cay offer staghorn, elkhorn and brain corals that are easily reached by swimming from shore.  The islands are replete with every kind of beach and water activity, including parasailing, water-skiing and windsurfing. Most resort hotels either include watersports in their rates or offer them as extras. Most or all of these can be done on New Providence, Grand Bahama and Harbour Island. Freeport (on Grand Bahama) hosts the national Windsurfing Championship each January. The Bahamas is ideal for sailing. Favored areas are the protected waters of the Sea of Abaco (between Great Abaco and the Abaco cays) and Exuma Sound. Both are good for beginners, as the waters are shallow and sheltered and always within sight of land.  The gin-clear waters of the sandbanks that shelve the perimeters of most islands seem to be made for bonefishing. The large-eyed, fork-tailed bonefish spook easily and are hard to hook, which makes finding the fish half the fun - or frustration. They can be caught year-round, though April and May - spawning time - are the most productive months. The archipelago's ocean waters are also a playpen for schools of blue and white marlin, dolphin fish, wahoo, and tuna, making sport fishing a big attraction.  If you're feeling waterlogged, consider the drier pastime of bird watching. More than two dozen reserves protect more than 230 species. Great Inagua is best for bird watching, and Inagua National Park protects the Western Hemisphere's largest flock of West Indian flamingo. Other key locales include Abaco National Park; Man-O-War Cay (in the Abaco Islands); the area around Love Hill on the northeastern coast of North Andros; and Armbrister Creek, just north of New Bight on Cat Island.  
caribbean_bahamas_attractions.html:  Attractions  Nassau, the nation's capital, is steeped in modern American ways but has an undeniable quasi-Caribbean flavor. It exudes a special charm, imparted by a blend of Old World architecture and contemporary vitality. It's a far cry from the rustic and rowdy village once favored by pirates. The center of touristic affairs is the waterfront, a beehive of activity when the ships disgorge their hordes. The historic downtown has many well-preserved 18th- and 19th-century buildings. Parliament Square is surrounded by the country's major government buildings.   Paradise Island is connected to Nassau with a bridge. It has great beaches and over-the-top resorts. Tropical plant fanciers can browse over 300 species at the lush Royal Victoria Garden. The heart of the shopping district is Bay Street, where you can shop at the largest straw market in the world. The Queen's Staircase, dating from the late 18th century, was built by over 500 slaves who labored for 16 years to carve a gorge-like roadway through the limestone ridge south of downtown Nassau until abandoning it, unfinished, with the abolition of slavery in 1834.  
caribbean_bahamas_environment.html:  Environment  To split a geographical hair, The Bahamas is not part of the Caribbean, as many people think. Rather, it is part of the North American plate and is bordered to the east by the Atlantic Ocean and to the west by the Gulf Stream. No matter - we'll fudge it and say vaguely that the islands are 'in the West Indies,' lumping them in with all the islands between North and South America. Politically, The Bahamas is considered part of the Caribbean - not least by its own government.  The Bahamas archipelago consists of some 700 islands and nearly 2500 small islets or cays sprawled across roughly 100,000 sq miles (259,000 sq km) of ocean. The islands stretch 750 miles (1200km) south from Walker's Cay, about 75 miles (120km) east of Palm Beach, Florida, to the Ragged Islands, which lie 50 miles (85km) northeast of Cuba. In all this vastness, the islands together add up to no more than 5385 sq miles (13,940 sq km) of land, about the size of the US state of Connecticut. Virtually all the islands are surrounded by coral reefs and sandbanks; nearly all are low lying, either pancake flat or gently undulating. Many islands are pockmarked by giant sinkholes called blue holes - water-filled, circular pits that open to underground and submarine caves and descend as much as 600ft (180m).  The islands become more arid and less vegetated as you move south, where hardy drought-resistant scrub and cacti predominate. There are over 1370 species of trees and plants found on the islands, including the Bahamian mahogany and 120 other natives. Pine forests rule the northern and western islands, characterized by a shrubby understory of palmetto, cabbage palm and fern. Many of the leeward (western) shores are fringed by mangroves - the only tree able to survive with its roots in saltwater. Flowers abound every month of the year. Many are associated with trees, such as the Pride of India, a large tree that when in flower becomes a cloud of lavender. Another beauty is the blue mahoe, an endemic form of hibiscus that blazes from yellow to red.  The archipelago has only 13 native land mammal species, all but one being bats, all being endangered. The most common is the leaf-nosed bat. The only native terrestrial mammal is the endangered hutia, a cat-sized brown rodent akin to a guinea pig. Wild boar roam the backcountry on some of the larger islands. Feral cattle, donkeys and horses, released after the demise of the salt industry, outnumber humans on the southern islands. The Bahamas have plenty of slithery and slimy things, including 44 species of reptiles. The islands' symbol could well be the curly-tailed lizard, a critter found throughout most of the islands and easily spotted sunning on rocks, its tail coiled like a spring over its back. Humpback and blue whales are often sighted in the waters east of the islands. Atlantic bottle-nosed dolphins frequent these waters, as do the less often seen spotted dolphins.  Upon visiting the Bahamian archipelago in the 1760s, George Washington referred to it as the 'Isles of Perpetual June.' Indeed, the sun shines an average of 320 days a year. In general, the islands are balmy year round, with cooling, near constant trade winds blowing by day from the east. Daily high temperatures rarely drop below 60 F (16 C) in winter (December to February) or rise above 90 F (32 ) in summer (June to August). The northern islands receive much more rain than their southerly neighbors. The rainy season runs from May to November, usually bringing short, heavy showers, though occasionally manifesting in protracted rains over several days. Summertime sometimes brings squalls and hurricanes, though the latter are rare.  
caribbean_bahamas_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US citizens do not need a passport or visa for stays of less than eight months but must show proof of citizenship. Visas and passports are not required of citizens of Canada or the UK and Commonwealth who stay three weeks or less. Visitors from most other European countries need passports but not visas for stays up to three months. Air passengers must have a return or ongoing airline ticket.Health risks: Sunburn, prickly heat, dehydration, heat exhaustion, heat stroke, fungal infection, diarrhea, giardiasis, HIV/AIDS, tetanus, jellyfishTime: GMT/UTC minus five hoursElectricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & measures: ImperialTelephoning: From North America, dial 1 + 242 + the seven-digit local number. From elsewhere, dial your country's international direct dialing prefix + 1 + 242 + the seven-digit local number. When to Go  The Bahamas is a year-round destination. Incessant trade breezes ensure pleasant temperatures, so unless you're visiting the southern isles, which get infernally hot in summer (June to August), weather isn't a major factor in determining when to go. The best time to come is the warm, breezy summer, when the water is so warm you can linger in it for hours. Mid-winter temperatures in the northerly and westerly isles can be surprisingly cold. In summer, the rainy season extends from May to November, when hurricanes are a slim possibility. The so-called 'peak season' runs from mid-December to mid-April, when hotel prices are highest.     Events   Junkanoo, the nation's most famous festival, has been called 'the centerpiece of Bahamian culture.' The event is hosted at various venues around Christmas and New Year, when streets and settlements resound with cowbells, whistles and goatskin 'goombay' drums, drawing in thousands of foreign visitors. Mostly it's a big blow-out for the locals. The main festivity begins before sunrise on Bay St in Nassau on December 26. As many as 20,000 locals and tourists party the night away.  The Caribbean Muzik Fest is a week-long jam in late May or early June with reggae, soca, junkanoo and dance hall under the same billing, featuring the best of the Caribbean's musical talent. Pomp and ceremony occur quarterly in Rawson Square in downtown Nassau, with the opening of the Supreme Court. It features the Royal Bahamas Police Band.   Public HolidaysJanuary 1 - New Year's DayEaster Holidays - Good Friday, Easter7 weeks after Easter - Whit MondayFirst Friday in June - Labour DayJuly 10 - Independence DayFirst Monday in August - Emancipation DayOctober 12 - Discovery DayDecember 25 - Christmas DayDecember 26 - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to BahamasTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_bahamas_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Virtually untapped by tourism, Long Island is the most scenic in The Bahamas. Atlantic rollers crash against the cliffs on the windward coast. Shallow bays indent the western shore. At the northern tip of the island is Cape Santa Maria, where the western shore is one long white-sand beach shelving into turquoise shallows. Snorkeling is especially good at the reef gardens on the cape's southern end. The island's main base is Stella Maris, the setting for acclaimed scuba diving and sport fishing. The town is essentially an upscale residential community on the northeastern coast, though there are good beaches and tidepools. There's a spectacular beach at McKann's Bay on the western coast, where tall dunes back a wide crescent of sand indented with bird-filled lagoons.  In the center of the island is the commercial hub of Salt Pond, where the biggest excitement is the arrival of the mail boat. Aside from the beautiful St Joseph's Anglican Church, there are few sights here, but you can hike trails through tall dunes overlooking the waters on both sides of the islands. Fifteen miles (24km) south of Salt Pond is Deadman's Cay, where history buffs can poke around the ruins of an old plantation. Immediately south of town are Cartwright's Caves, once used by Lucayan Indians and now home to a colony of bats. Just south of Deadman's Cay is the hamlet of Petty's, home of the famous Wild Tamarind Pottery Studio, where you can browse or buy fine ceramics.  
caribbean_barbados_activities.html:  Activities  Barbados is blessed with beaches and has good swimming, snorkeling and diving. Some of the island's prettiest beaches and calmest waters are along the western coast; top spots include Paynes Bay, Sandy Bay and Mullins Bay. The southwestern side of the island also has fine beaches, including Sandy Beach near Worthing, and Dover Beach, just south of St Lawrence. On the southeastern side is Crane Beach, a scenic stretch of pink-tinged sand that's popular for bodysurfing but rough for swimming. The eastern coast has dangerous water conditions, including rocky shelves and strong currents, suitable for only the most confident swimmers.  The western coast of Barbados has reef dives with soft corals, gorgonians and colorful sponges. There are about a dozen accessible shipwrecks, some - such as the Berwyn in Carlisle Bay - lie at good snorkeling depths. The island has excellent windsurfing conditions from November to June at Maxwell and Silver Sands, and good surfing at the Soup Bowl, South Point and Rockley Beach.  The Barbados National Trust leads weekly guided hikes in the countryside on local history, geology, flora and fauna. You can also arrange horseback riding along the beach at Mullins Bay.  
caribbean_barbados_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital of Barbados is a busy commercial city set on Carlisle Bay, the island's only natural harbor. It's short on must-see sights but certainly worth sauntering around for half a day. It's an architectural hodgepodge of modern and colonial, with side streets leading off into residential neighborhoods sprinkled with rum shops and chattel houses. True to the island's British heritage, there are monumental obelisks, gothic parliament buildings, and a large Anglican cathedral. More surprising perhaps is Bridgetown's distinctive 19th-century synagogue; the first synagogue on this site was built in the 1600s, when Barbados had a Jewish population of more than 300.  Bridgetown's outdoor attractions include the Careenage, a finger-like inlet lined with recreational boats that cuts into the heart of the city; and Queen's Park, which has good picnicking lawns and a huge old baobab tree for shade. Military history buffs should head to the Barbados Garrison, the 17th-century base of the British Windward and Leeward Islands Command. It has a museum, fortifications, brigs and cannons a-plenty. The Barbados Museum has engaging exhibits, and for a quick immersion in the island's history you couldn't do better than to spend an hour or two here. The best way to wrap up the day is to visit the street foodstalls and rum shops along the well-lit sections of Baxter's Rd, Bridgetown's 'street that never sleeps.'  
caribbean_barbados_environment.html:  Environment  Barbados is a distorted pear-shaped island lying 2585km (1610mi) southeast of Miami and 860km (535mi) northeast of Caracas, Venezuela. It's about the size of a large US city. The western coast has white-sand beaches and calm turquoise waters, while the cliff-lined Atlantic eastern coast is much more turbulent. Coral reefs surround most of the island.  Over eons the buildup of coral on sedimentary rocks has created the bulk of the island. Water permeates its soft coral cap, creating underground streams, springs and limestone caverns. The most notable of the caverns, Harrison's Cave, is one of the island's leading tourist attractions. Although most of the island is relatively flat, the interior is hilly and the northeastern area, known as the Scotland District, rises to a lofty 340m (1115ft) at Mt Hillaby.  Early settlers leveled most of Barbados' native forest for farming, and today the landscape is mainly sugar cane fields, pasture and scrubland. Small areas of native woodland remain in gullies and clifflands too steep for cultivation. One of the island's most common trees is the bearded fig tree, for which the island was named ( los barbados is Spanish for 'the bearded ones'). Other trees common to Barbados are palms, casuarina, locust, white cedar, poinciana and mahogany. There are also many flowering plants and some beautiful cultivated gardens open to visitors.  A few introduced mammals are found in the wild, including mongoose, European hares, mice and rats. The island's ubiquitous green monkeys were introduced as pets from West Africa some 350 years ago. Found only on Barbados is the non-poisonous and rarely seen grass snake. The island also has a small harmless blind snake, whistling frogs, lizards, red-footed tortoises and eight species of bats. Hawksbill turtles come ashore to lay their eggs on the island's sandy beaches on a regular basis, and the leatherback turtle is an occasional nester. More than 180 species of birds have been sighted on Barbados. Most are migrating shorebirds and waders that breed in North America and stop over on the island en route to winter feeding grounds in South America. Only a fraction actually nest on Barbados; these include wood doves, blackbirds, bananaquits, guinea fowl, cattle egrets, herons, finches and three kinds of hummingbirds.  Barbados boasts 3000 hours of sunshine every year, and the constant air conditioning of trade winds keeps daytime temperatures down. In January the average daily high temperature is 28 C (83 F) while the low averages 21 C (70 F). In July the average daily high is 30 C (86 F) while the low averages 23 C (74 F). February to May are the driest months. In July, the wettest month, there's measurable rainfall for an average of 18 days, while April, the driest month, averages seven days.  
caribbean_barbados_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas:Visas are required for citizens from the People's Republic of China, Taiwan, Pakistan, non-Commonwealth African countries and all South American countries except Argentina, Brazil and Venezuela. All visitors are officially required to be in possession of an onward or return ticket.Health risks:Dengue fever, diarrhea and intestinal parasites; leptospirosis can be present in freshwater streamsTime:GMT/UTC minus 4 hoursElectricity:110V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to go to Barbados is during the cooler, drier months of late winter and early spring (February to May). Keep in mind that this is also the peak tourist season when prices are higher and places most crowded.     Events  The island's top event is the Crop-Over Festival, which originated in colonial times as a celebration of the sugar cane harvest. Festivities stretch over a three-week period beginning in mid-July. There are spirited calypso competitions and fairs around the island. The festival culminates with a Carnival-like costume parade on Kadooment Day (the first Monday in August).  In February, the Holetown Festival celebrates the 1627 arrival of the first English settlers on Barbados. Holetown's week-long festivities include street fairs, a music festival at the historic parish church and a road race. The Oistins Fish Festival, held over Easter weekend, commemorates the signing of the Charter of Barbados. It's a seaside event focusing on boat races, fish-boning competitions, local foods, crafts and dancing. The National Independence Festival of Creative Arts, held throughout November, features talent contests in dance, drama, singing and the like. Performances by the finalists are held on Independence Day (30 November).  There are also a handful of international sporting events, including the Barbados Windsurfing World Cup, held at Silver Sands in January, and the Caribbean Surfing Championship, held in early November at Bathsheba.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 21 January - Errol Barrow Day March or April - Good Friday, Easter Monday 28 April - Heroes Day 1 May - Labour Day Eighth Monday after Easter - Whit-Monday 1 August - Emancipation Day First Monday in August - Kadooment Day First Monday in October - United Nations Day 30 November - Independence Day 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to BarbadosTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_barbados_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This atmospheric 17th-century plantation house is the only one on Barbados that can be explored in its entirety. The house has thick stone walls built of local coral blocks and ballast stones from the English sailing ships that picked up shipments of Barbadian sugar. The interior retains its colonial ambiance and is furnished with antiques, many made from Barbadian mahogany. The articulate guides are well-versed in local history, making this the finest plantation tour on the island. Buses from Oistins stop at the house gates.  
caribbean_bonaire_activities.html:  Activities  You dive in Bonaire. There are 40 top sites on the leeward coast alone, many within a few meters of shore. There are hawksbill turtles, peacock flounders, stingrays and seahorses off Pink Beach on the southwestern coast. There are good spots a bit farther north at the Salt Pier, where angelfish slalom among the coral-encrusted pilings. The wreck of the Hilma Hooker lies in 30m (100ft) of water near the Salt Pier. The ship's cargo of marijuana bales was its ticket to the deep - customs officers confiscated the load and sank the boat. Snorkelers can find dozens of good spots, including groves of elkhorn and staghorn coral just off Klein Bonaire, and the shallow waters of Boca Slagbaai, in Washington-Slagbaai National Park.  Constant trade winds make Bonaire a super sailing destination; anchoring is prohibited within the Marine Park but there are marinas around the island, one right by Kralendijk. There's decent windsurfing and kayaking at Lac Bay and Sorobon Beach on Bonaire's pin-drop quiet southeastern coast, though folk heading this way are likely to be off to drop their jocks at Sorobon's naturist resort.   Birders flock to Bonaire and not just for the tens of thousands of flamingoes who call the island home. There are dozens of native species and many more who pass by while migrating to South America. The flamingo sanctuaries at Goto Meer in the northwest and Pekelmeer in the south are vast tracts of feathery pink. You can also see frigatebirds, pelicans, red-necked pigeons and five different species of heron.  The island's nearly 300km (186mi) of roads and trails make mountain biking a good way to see the country. Unleash your inner paleoanthropologist by pedaling up to the northeastern coast and inspecting the Caiquetio Indian petroglyphs in the Boca Onima Caves. If the hilly northern end seems too strenuous, the southern flatlands are an easier ride. The 1835 Willemstoren Lighthouse near the tip of the island makes a fine picnic stop.  
caribbean_bonaire_attractions.html:  Attractions  Fewer than 2000 people live in this sleepy, two-story town, where the main street is a stone's throw from end to end. Although salt has been the island's economic mainstay for centuries, the town's name (Dutch for coral reef) reveals that it's the capital of diving - reefs being to Bonaire what cable cars are to San Francisco. The locals call it simply 'Playa.'  A walking tour pamphlet, available from the tourist office, will lead you on a merry jig to the town's modest attractions. One of the best sights is the 19th-century Fort Oranje (now serving as the Harbor Office) and its adjacent stone lighthouse. The Bonaire Museum is a sweet local affair, housing exhibits on the Caiquetio Indians as well as more recent art, artifacts and household items.  
caribbean_bonaire_environment.html:  Environment  Shaped like the bit that Van Gogh discarded, Bonaire remains the least populated and least developed of the so-called 'ABC' islands (which it forms with Aruba and Cura ao). The island measures 40km (25mi) from north to south, about 8km (5mi) wide, and lies 72km (45mi) north of Venezuela. It's hilly in the north, flat in the south and dry all over. The highest point is the not quite towering 235m (780ft) Brandaris Hill in Washington-Slagbaai National Park. Bonaire's territory includes dinky Klein Bonaire, a 600ha (1500 acre) islet off the western coast.  Most of your four-legged friends on Bonaire are going to be lizards - they're everywhere, including splattered all over the road. Goats and scrawny donkeys graze the scrub, mostly running wild. The island's only native mammal is the bat - there are a couple dozen distinct subspecies. Over 200 species of birds flap and flutter around Bonaire. You can spot elegant flamingos in the salt flats in the south of the island and in the national park, in the northeast. Parrots and hummingbirds are amongst others to look out for. Four species of sea turtle share Bonaire's sparkling waters with the fish and crustacteans.  Enviro-conscious Bonairean authorities implore visitors to help keep the place spic, span and sporty by leaving dive sites as found, minimizing the quantity of disposable packaging brought and bought, and taking dead batteries off the island on departure. The Bonaire Marine Park was declared in 1979 - it protects all the sea around Bonaire and Klein Bonaire - calculated from the high-tide mark to 60m (200ft) underwater. Proceeds from the US$10 fee levied on your first dive go towards conserving the reef. Klein Bonaire, as yet untouched except by turtles who nest there and picnickers who munch there, has been approached by developers; there's a campaign to have it declared a sanctuary.  
caribbean_bonaire_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: U.S. and Canadian citizens need a passport and return or onward tickets. Others must bring visa, passport and those all-important tickets. The maximum stay is 14 days, with the option to extend your visit up to 90 days. Contact Bonaire's embassy for the latest information.Health risks: Sunburn, fire coral, sea urchins, jellyfish, dehydrationTime: Atlantic Standard Time (GMT/UTC minus 4 hours)Electricity: 110-130V, 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTelephone: Country code 599, area code 7 When to Go  The average daily high stays around 27 C (81 F) all year, and humidity is tolerable, so the best time to go is the low season of May to mid-December when rates come down. Bonaire is out of the hurricane belt so you don't have to figure the big blow into your schedule.     Events  Bonaire's biggest party is Carnival, which features music, dancing and celebrations of the harvest from late February to early March. You can 'jump-up' on National Day, when most of the action happens in Rincon. The week-long October International Sailing Regatta brings a fleet of racers to the bay off Kralendijk.   Public Holidays1 January - New Year's DayEaster Holidays - Good Friday, Eastern Sunday, Easter Monday30 April - Queen's Birthday1 May - Labor Day6 September - Bonaire Day25 December - Christmas Day26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to BonaireTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_bonaire_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This uninhabited islet is a short boat ride from Kralendijk. Surrounded by reefs, it's a popular picnic spot and jumping off point for dives. Unlike much of Big Bonaire, the little one has white sandy beaches. Due to its popularity with seabirds and nesting turtles, Klein Bonaire is one of two local areas covered by the Convention on Wetlands of International Importance.  
caribbean_british_virgin_islands_activities.html:  Activities   Bareboating, or self-crew yacht chartering, is the most popular way to cruise from island to island, and if you have access to a vessel you'll find deserted coves and beaches even at the height of the tourist season. One of the best places to drop anchor is at Cane Garden Bay on Tortola, which has a fine beach and two reefs to explore. A large anchorage at uninhabited Norman Island, the furthest island south of Tortola, has been called the 'Bight' since pirate days because it has good holding and is well sheltered. Neighboring Peter Island is where Blackbeard is said to have left 15 men with a bottle of rum and one saber to fight out their differences. Moorings at both islands are shared with spotted lobster and lettuce sea slugs and are only a few minutes' ride by dinghy from excellent dive sites. Norman Island also has caves that can be explored by snorkelers.  There's more great diving at Salt Island, northeast of Peter Island, which is famed as the site of the wreck of the RMS Rhone. Sunk in 1867, the sailing steamship split into two pieces, which means double the diving pleasure. Neighboring Cooper Island has strong currents that attract abundant marine life. Nearby Ginger Island has rough waters because it's exposed to the southeast trade winds, but 50ft (15m) below the surface are huge mushroom-shaped star corals and multicolored sponges.  Horseshoe Reef off the southern shore of Anegada measures 11 miles (18km) long and is the third largest reef in the world. It has claimed hundreds of ships over the years, making it a great spot for wreck diving. Other watering holes on every diver's list include the Baths on Virgin Gorda, a pile of gigantic boulders that form amazing underwater caves; and West Dog, a tiny national park islet a few miles off the western portion of Virgin Gorda. Smugglers Cove, on the far western tip of Tortola, is a remote cove that offers super snorkeling.  There are numerous short but stiff walks in the islands' national parks and if you want the views but not the leg-action, a number of stables will saddle up a nag for some horseback riding.  
caribbean_british_virgin_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  Tortola is the hub of the British Virgin Islands. People come for its top notch beaches, banks, customs and the best range of hotels, restaurants and nightclubs. The capital, Road Town, is a little more picturesque than its name suggests. Main St, one street back from the waterfront, is a pretty stretch of brightly painted wooden and brick buildings. If you're here waiting for someone to get their hair braided, it's worth flexing out in the peaceful JR O'Neal Botanic Gardens or admiring curios in the small BVI Folk Museum.  What really makes Tortola special though are its great bays and beaches. The best spots to lay down your beach towel or don a mask and flippers are on the northwest coast at Cane Garden Bay, Smugglers Cove and Brewers Bay. When you tire of being horizontal, there are fine views of the surrounding islands from the Sage Mountain National Park, though not from the dense scrub at the 1780ft (534m) peak. The North Shore Shell Museum in Carrot Bay is about as cluttered and chaotic as a museum can get; as well as thousands of shells, there are boats and various dibbets of craft crammed in among scores of homilies painted on driftwood.  
caribbean_british_virgin_islands_environment.html:  Environment  Hilly and dry, the islands lie 50 miles (80km) east of Puerto Rico, 1100 miles (1770km) southeast of Miami and immediately east and north of the US Virgin Islands. Tortola, Virgin Gorda, Anegada and Jost Van Dyke are the principal islands; most of the other 40 odd islets are uninhabited. Taken together, they're a little smaller than Washington, DC. Three quarters of the British Virgin Islands' population lives on Tortola, which is 14 miles (23km) long and 2 miles (3km) wide.  Dense subtropical forests cover most of the islands' inland hills, but there are also arid stretches dominated by succulents, palm and coastal mangrove swamps, where baby fish find their swimming fins and crabs scuttle about. Indigenous forest flora includes mahogany, bulletwood, fig, tree ferns and the elephant ear vine, which slithers along the ground until it finds a sturdy tree to climb. Mango, papaya, coconut and breadfruit trees are found in abundance. The mammee apple is native to this part of the Caribbean and is prized for its sweet brown-skinned fruit.  Common animals are lizards, rats and donkeys. The nocturnal bo-peep frog is found exclusively on Virgin Gorda and Tortola and has a call that seems impossibly loud for such a little tacker. Virgin Gorda is home to a tiny gecko with the distinction of having a name ( Spherodactylus pathenopian) longer than the animal itself. The cheekiest bird of the islands is the bananaquit, a yellow-breasted sugar addict that thinks nothing of swooping your breakfast table for a hypoglycemic hit. Other birds include doves, hummingbirds, herons, egrets and hawks.  The weather is reliably balmy with daily highs year round between 70-80 F (22-27 C). Trade winds keep humidity low and Caribbean currents keep waters warm. Rainfall is unlikely to dampen a visit, with the wettest months, September through November, averaging only about five days of rain each. The islands are prone to hurricanes between July and October, so keep an eye on weather reports if you're visiting during these months.  
caribbean_british_virgin_islands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of the US and Canada do not require a visa or passport, but should carry a birth certificate or naturalization certificate with a picture ID to prove citizenship. British citizens need a passport but not a visa. Citizens of all other countries need a passport, and, in some cases, a visa. Visitors are permitted to stay up to six months but must have an onward ticket.Health risks: Sunburn, dengue feverTime:Atlantic Standard Time (GMT/UTC minus 3 hours)Electricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & measures: ImperialTelephone: From North America, dial 1 + 284 + the seven-digit local number. From elsewhere, dial your country's direct dialing prefix + 1 + 284 + the seven-digit local number. When to Go  The peak tourist season is December to May, but this has more to do with the weather in North America and Europe than it does with the reliably balmy Virgin Islands weather. It's therefore best to visit outside this period, when you can expect room rates to be about two-thirds of those charged during the busier months. An additional draw is that the calmer weather between April and August tends to keep the waters clearer for diving.     Events  The BVI Summer Fest is a two week riot of noise and color: calypso, fungi and steel bands shake it up, pageants crown festival queens and people flood the streets. The festival is the British Virgin Islands' own version of Carnival and celebrates the emancipation of the islands' African slaves. Most activity takes place in Road Town on Tortola.  Yachties sail in for the Annual Spring Regatta held in Road Town in April, and windsurfers converge on the islands for the HIHO Races held late June or early July. The competition lasts seven days, and a gaggle of cruisers follows the racers in a weeklong portable party. Fourth of July isn't normally celebrated in British territory for obvious reasons, but there are enough Americans in the BVI to justify fireworks and a spate of barbecues.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day Early March - Commonwealth Day Late March or April - Easter 30 April - Queen's Birthday Late May or early June - Whit Monday June - Sovereign's Birthday Early July - Territory Day October 21 - St Ursula's Day November 14 - Birthday of Heir to the Throne 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to British Virgin IslandsTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_british_virgin_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Anegada is a place for people who enjoy the feeling of nothing but sea and reef for miles around. Unique to the Virgin Islands, it is a flat coral and limestone island. Its highest point is only 28ft (8m) above sea level, and miles of isolated white beaches line the northern and western shores. The third largest reef in the world, Horseshoe Reef extends 11 miles (18km) to the southeast of Anegada and hosts hundreds of shipwrecks, creating unlimited potential for divers.  Anegada is 12 miles (19km) long and a couple of miles wide. There's an airstrip, a smattering of hotels and campgrounds, and only 200 people on the island. No regular public ferries dock here. If you're staying on the island, check with your hotel about transport. Otherwise, hire a boat or a water taxi from Tortola or grab a puddle-jumping flight from Beef Island.  
caribbean_cayman_islands_activities.html:  Activities  The Caymans have some excellent beaches, the best-known of which is Seven Mile Beach (actually a little over 5 miles [8km]), a long stretch of powdery white sand along West Bay. The main drawbacks are that it's also the most popular and most developed beach in the islands, so you'll be towel-to-towel with fellow sunbathers during the peak winter season. There are other, less crowded strands along the northern coast of Grand Cayman, west of North Sound; at the southwestern end of Cayman Brac; and at Point of Sand at the eastern tip of Little Cayman.  Coral-encrusted trench walls, year-round warm, clear water, and little or no current make the Caymans one of the best places to dive in the Caribbean. On the main island, West Bay and the reefs along the mouth of North Sound offer the most sites. West Bay's Victoria House Reef, just off Seven Mile Beach, features sea fans, parrotfish and brilliant orange tube sponges. The North Wall off Jackson Point on Little Cayman hosts sting and eagle rays, turtles and masses of coral. Cayman Brac has shallow elkhorn gardens off its southwestern coast and a steep virgin wall where the bluff continues below the eastern shore.  If you really want to get down, consider taking a trip on the Atlantis Deep Explorer. This research submarine takes two passengers at a time down to a depth of 1000ft (330m) - it's ghostly, dreamy, freaky, oh, and expensive. For a more interactive diving ding-dong, you can go for a hickey from a ray at Stingray City. Stingrays gather at this North Sound sandbar, where they know they'll get fed (fish food, not snorkelers), and there are lots of operators who will take you out for the half day trip.  Those same private operators will happily take you fishing. Though no license is required for deep-sea fishing, regulations require the angler to keep only that which can be consumed (some restaurants will cook your catch for you). Tarpon and bonefish are for sport only - all must be released.  With nearly 200 native winged species, the islands have outstanding birding. Cayman Brac has a Parrot Preserve and colonies of boobies and yellow-bellied sapsuckers. Little Cayman is home to the Booby Pond Nature Reserve, where red-footed boobies, herons and egrets are common sights. Meagre Bay Pond, on the southern coast of Grand Cayman, features grebes, plovers, shovelers and snowy egrets.  The National Trust has produced self-guided walking tour booklets for George Town and Central West Bay, easing your passage to the past with explanation and anecdote. Most of the islands' hiking trails are flat, but you could try speed-walking the 140ft (45m) bluff at the eastern end of Cayman Brac if you're desperate for a workout. The Botanic Gardens on Grand Cayman have a carefully laid-out educational trail through acres of orchids and flowering fruit trees. Cayman Brac also has great caving, especially in the recesses of the bluff, where (as local legend has it) you might find pirate treasure - or a rusty bottle cap or two.  If those romantic sunsets are really doing it for you and your special someone, why don't you all get hitched? Increasing numbers of visitors come to the Caymans to get married - waiting time and fuss is minimal, you're sure to have a gorgeous background for the photos and it's not far to the honeymoon suite.  
caribbean_cayman_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  Bursting with condos and bristling with satellite dishes, the capital would resemble a generic North American urban area were it not for its undeniably Caribbean seaside setting. George Town's attractions include a modest historical walking tour that takes in the remains of the late-18th-century Fort George and the Cayman Islands National Museum, situated in the town's oldest building. The museum, one of the Caribbean's best, features changing exhibits on the islands' human and natural history. The Cayman Maritime Treasure Museum has dioramas on the islands' seafaring days and a robotic Blackbeard that spins yarns about the Caymans' swashbuckling past.  Otherwise, George Town functions mostly as a supply center and shopping mall. Stretching north along West Bay is Seven Mile Beach, which, if you don't mind the daisy chain of hotels, offers pristine white sand and good diving.  
caribbean_cayman_islands_environment.html:  Environment  Sparsely populated, mostly flat and partly marshy, Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac and Little Cayman have a corner of the Caribbean all to themselves. The largest, Grand Cayman, is shaped a bit like the Little Dipper and spans about 25 miles (45km) from the lip of the cup on the western end to the tip of the handle on the eastern end. It lies 150 miles (240km) south of Cuba and about 180 miles (290km) west of Jamaica. Little Cayman and Cayman Brac lie 80 miles (130km) and 90 miles (145km) to the east of Grand Cayman, respectively. They're both about 10 miles long and a mile wide (16km by 2km). There is also a scattering of uninhabited islets and cays.  The Caymans aren't lush, but they do support a fair swag of plantlife. Mahogany was once abundant but has been mostly logged. Poisonous species include maiden plum (a weed with rash-causing sap), lady's hair or cowitch (a vine with fiberglass-like barbs) and the vicious manchineel tree, which produces a skin-blistering sap. Take care not to shelter under a manchineel in the rain! Other indigenous plants are cochineel, used as a shampoo as well as eaten, and pingwing, whose barbed branches were fashioned into a natural fence. The fauna is less aggressive: the islands are crawling with critters, mostly lizards, but also a nonpoisonous grass snake, the agouti (an introduced species known locally as rabbit) and prolific bird life. The most spectacular animal is the Cayman blue iguana, an endangered and magnificent throwback to the dinosaurs.  The Caymans are warm in the summer (May to October), when the average daily high reaches 85 F (29 C). This is also the rainy season but the showers are brief. Winter (November to April) is drier and cooler, with average daily highs of 75 F (24 C).  
caribbean_cayman_islands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US and Canadian citizens don't need visas or passports, only proof of citizenship. Citizens of the EU, the UK or the Commonwealth, Israel and Japan need passports but not visas. Travelers from elsewhere may need visas as well as passports.Health risks: Sunburn, poisonous plantsTime: EST (GMT minus five hours)Electricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & measures: ImperialTelephone: Country code 345 When to Go  Given that mid-December to mid-April (winter) is the peak tourist season, when rates are substantially higher and beaches and lodgings more crowded, it's best to go in the summer. There is more rain in summer, but it tends to come in downpours that clear as quickly as they arrive. Nervous Nellies will tell you that this is hurricane season, but the chances that you'll get swept up in the big one are slim. Even so, it's best to keep an eye on the weather reports in the days before your arrival.     Events  Grand Cayman's answer to Carnival is Batabano, a weekend of costumed hedonism and hangovers held around Easter. The local equivalent on Cayman Brac is known as Brachanal, held a week after Batabano. Pirate's Week, which features fireworks, mock battles and assorted skulduggery, gives bankers, barworkers and locals the chance to break out the gold earrings, eye patches and stuffed parrots during the last week of October. There's a month-long fishing tournament every June where locals and visitors test their skills against one another and the fruits of the sea. Hefty cash prizes are doled out for record breakers.   Public HolidaysJanuary 1 - New Year's DayEaster Holidays - Ash Wednesday, Good Friday, Easter MondaySecond Monday in April - Queen's BirthdayMay 18 - Discovery DayJuly 6 - Constitution DayNovember 9 - Remembrance DayDecember 25 - Christmas DayDecember 26 - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to Cayman IslandsTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_cayman_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Taking its name from the Gaelic word for 'bluff,' Cayman Brac rises to 140ft (45m) at its eastern end. The island is mostly wilderness, home to a nearly equal number of settlements and resorts. It's covered in fruit trees, orchids and cacti, and surrounded by good beaches. Spelunkers can go caving along the northern shore and under the bluff, where legend has it pirates used to stow away their loot. The road to the top of the bluff passes through the National Trust Parrot Reserve, nesting ground for the islands' emerald green native species. Unfortunately, it's not exactly a parrot-spotting bonanza - most of the parrots seem to hang around in town where the pickings are richer. The reserve also features guided hikes along a 2-mile (3km) nature trail. You can browse shipbuilding tools and kitchen utensils at the wee Cayman Brac Museum in Stake Bay on the northern shore.  The Brac's most famous dive site is a Russian destroyer, purpose-sunk in 1996 to give divers the opportunity to do their own post-Cold War reccy mission. The ship is also turning into a dandy artificial reef.  
caribbean_cuba_activities.html:  Activities  There are terrific hiking and trekking possibilities on the Cuban island. Marked walking trails, maps and professional guides are almost nonexistent but local residents will usually guide you for just a few dollars.   Horseback riding is also popular among visitors, and special tourist ranches have been established at Baconao and Trinidad. The northeasterly tradewinds bring good swells between December and April, but surfers will have to bring their own boards as none are locally available for rent. Cuba is endowed with wonderful areas for scuba diving and snorkelling, and the 30-odd dive centers across the country offer organized dives, courses and equipment for hire. Deep-sea fishing is also popular in Cuba's waters.  
caribbean_cuba_attractions.html:  Attractions  Havana (La Habana) is the largest city in the Caribbean and the center of all things Cuban. Despite its turbulent history, Havana suffered little damage in the country's wars and revolutions and stands today much as it was built 100 years ago or more. There's an air of faded glory about the city as big '50s and '60s American automobiles still dominate the streets, and paint and plaster peel off everywhere. The city is peppered with glorious Spanish colonial architecture, much of which is under restoration.  Havana has a swinging nightlife, with cinemas, historic theatres, cabarets, nightclubs and music venues that will exhaust even the most hardened campaigner. There's less traffic and less commercialization than choke your average Latin American city. But from the rough brilliance of Old Havana to residential areas ranging from shabby to demanding demolition, the exuberant friendliness of Havana's inhabitants is what shines through.  
caribbean_cuba_environment.html:  Environment  Cuba is part of the West Indies and is situated within the Antilles Archipelago. Havana is a mere 170km from Florida's Key West, in the USA, and Pinar del R o Province is 210km from Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula. Cuba's other close neighbors are Jamaica, the Bahamas and Haiti, 77km away across the Windward Passage. Cuba's main island is the 15th largest island in the world, measuring 104,945 sq km, 1250km long and 191km wide at its widest point. Cuba also lays claim to the 220-sq-km Isla de la Juventud and a further 4200-odd coral cays and islets, most of which are low-lying and uninhabited.  Much of Cuba is made up of fertile flatlands, where cattle are grazed and sugarcane, coffee and tobacco are grown. The Oriental, Central and Occidental mountain ranges cover 25% of the country, the highest point being Pico Turquino (1972m). Cuba's longest river is the 343km R o Cauto, although it's barely navigable, even for small boats. The North American and Caribbean tectonic plates meet in the 7200m deep Cayman Trench between Jamaica and Cuba, and the region is thus prone to earthquakes.  There are more than 6000 plant species in Cuba, around half of which are endemic. The ever-present royal palm ( Reistonea regia) is represented on the country's coat of arms; there are said to be 20 million palms in Cuba. Cuba's other flora includes the rare and prehistoric cork palm ( Microcycas calocoma), a throwback to the Cretaceous Period; the jagüey, a fig with aerial roots; the palma barrigona (big belly palm); the ceiba (the sacred silk-cotton tree), and the mariposa (butterfly jasmine), the white national flower. Much of the southern coast has mangrove swamps that support small fish and birdlife while the majority of the northern coast is bordered by rugged beaches.  Cuba's most abundant land fauna is reptilian and includes crocodiles, iguanas, lizards, salamanders, turtles and 15 species of nonpoisonous snakes. The largest land mammal is the jut a ( Capromys), a tree rat which grows to about 60cm in length. The world's smallest bird comes from Cuba: the bee hummingbird, or zunzuncito ( Mellisuga helenae), is just bigger than a grasshopper and weighs only two grams. The tocororo ( Priotelus temnuros) is dubbed Cuba's national bird due to its red, white and blue plumage - the colors of the Cuban flag.  There are no great differences in seasonal temperature in Cuba, its pleasant subtropical climate being augmented by the gentle northeasterly trade winds. The wet summer season is between May and October, and the drier winter season runs from November through April. The average temperature reaches 27 C (81 F) in July and August and 22 C (72 F) in February. An average of 80% humidity exists all year round, with things just a little more sticky in the wet season.  
caribbean_cuba_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Virtually all visitors require a Cuban visa or Tourist Card, available from travel agencies, tour operators or a Cuban consulate for a stay of one month. The USA officially prohibits its citizens from traveling to Cuba unless they obtain a special license; travel restrictions are relaxing, however.Health risks: Cuba is a very healthy country. Hepatitis A is a common problem among travelers drinking tap water in areas with poor sanitation.Time:USA Eastern Standard TimeElectricity: 110-230V, three phase 60 HzWeights & measures: Metric with US and Spanish variations When to Go  There isn't a bad time to visit Cuba. The hot, rainy season runs from May to October but winter (December to April) is the island's peak tourist season, when planeloads of Canadians and Europeans arrive in pursuit of the southern sun. Cubans take their hols in July and August, so this is when the local beaches are most crowded. Christmas, Easter and the period around 26 July, when Cubans celebrate the anniversary of the revolution, are also very busy.     Events  The Havana Carnival in late February and early March features parades in front of the Capitolio or along the Malec n on Friday, Saturday and Sunday evenings. The Jornadas de la Cultura Camagneyana is scheduled for the first two weeks of February, and the Havana International Jazz Festival happens every second year in February. April sees the Semana de la Cultura celebrated in Baracoa and the Electroacoustic Music Festival in Varadero. The first week of May has the Romer a de Mayo in Holguin, and at the end of June Trinidad hosts the Fiestas Sanjuaneras. Carnival is celebrated in Santiago de Cuba during the last two weeks of July and the first week of August to coincide with the holidays around July 26. Carnival marks the end of the sugar harvest and originated as a period in which the slaves were allowed to celebrate. For those 10 days the drum is king. The Festival of Caribbean Culture is celebrated in June or July, October has the 10-day Havana Festival of Contemporary Music and the Semana de la Cultura Trinitaria happens in Trinidad in late November. The International Festival of Latin American Film is held in Havana in December of each year.   Public Holidays 1 January - Liberation Day 1 May - Labor Day 25-27 July - Celebration of the National Rebellion 10 October - Day of Cuban Culture Note that Christmas Day has been observed as a public holiday since the Pope's visit in 1997.back to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to CubaTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_cuba_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Bayamo is the capital of Granma Province, the country's southernmost point, and the region sees few tourists. This area was important in the Cuban struggle for freedom: Castro and 81 rebels landed at Cabo Cruz aboard the Granma (hence the province's name) on 2 December 1956, and the first War of Independence was launched here in October 1868 when Creole planter Carlos Manuel de Cespedes freed his slaves, formed a militia and overran the eastern end of the island. The area has a wealth of historic places of interest, including the site where Jose Mart was shot, and one of Cuba's greatest national parks, Gran Parque Nacional Sierra Maestra, to the south of Bayamo township. Bayamo has a pleasant and relaxed atmosphere and makes few concessions to tourism. The town is centered around Parque Cespedes, which is a delightful, shady park containing long marble benches and statues of Carlos Manuel de Cespedes and Perucho Figueredo (who composed the Cuban national anthem in 1868 to coincide with Cespedes' revolution). On the north side of the park is the Ayuntamiento, and it was in front of this in 1868 that Cespedes proclaimed independence for Cuba.  
caribbean_curacao_activities.html:  Activities  Cura ao doesn't have the long beaches typical of other Caribbean islands: many are short of sand and have been beefed up with imported grains. But there are small natural beaches in the coves on the leeward (southern and western) coasts that are great for swimming and sunbathing. The best beach isn't on the island at all - it's on Klein Cura ao, an uninhabited cay a few miles off the southeastern coast.   Snorkelers and divers can choose among many sites on the leeward coast. In the north, Playa Kalki has a sheltered cove with calm, clear water and a gentle slope that's good for beginners. Also check out Playa Lagun and Knipbaai. In the south, a nearly intact tugboat lies just a few meters down off Caracas Bay. There's a wall with large sheet corals nearby.  For hikers, the place to start is Christoffel National Park, where trails lead through mahogany forests and past rock faces covered with Amerindian petroglyphs. The Hato Caves, on the northern side of the island, offer great spelunking. You can examine fossilized fish and feel the cool spray of underground waterfalls.  
caribbean_curacao_attractions.html:  Attractions  Forget the squat resorts muscling each other along the coast and don't be put off by the disjointed shambles of badly signed roads: Willemstad is gorgeous. The capital of the Netherlands Antilles and one of a select number of urban areas on UNESCO's World Heritage List, it's divided in two by capacious St Anna Bay, the largest harbor in the Caribbean. Punda, to the east, and Otrobanda, to the west, are connected by a quaint pontoon bridge known as the Swinging Old Lady - she cocks a leg for boats.   Punda is the oldest part of the city, crowded with 17th- and 18th-century Dutch-style buildings. The 1732 Mikve Emanuel Synagogue is the oldest in the Americas. Its interior, including the original pipe organ and brass chandeliers, has been carefully preserved, and the floor is covered in footstep muffling sand. There's an adjacent Jewish Cultural Museum.   Fort Amsterdam was once the center of town and now houses the main offices for the government of the Netherlands Antilles. You can see a cannonball lodged in the wall of the fort chapel, a memento of Captain Bligh's 26-day siege in 1804. Also in Punda is the wonderful floating market ( mercado flotante). Vendors make the sea trip from Venezuela every morning with fresh fruit, vegetables and seafood - the stalls aren't actually floating, but they're close enough to the water to justify the name.  At the eastern end of Willemstad is the Sea Aquarium, where you can get a preview or a recap on the creatures of the deep. You can even dive or snorkel in this controlled environment if the sea seems a little frisky.  Head west and across the channel to Otrobanda ('other side'). Otrabanda became Willemstad's first suburb in the late 17th century, when lepers and convicts banished from Punda began moving here. The area's low-rise architecture is the result of an 18th century order not to obstruct Fort Amsterdam's line of fire. Most of the city's historic buildings are in Otrobanda, including the 1734 St Anna Basilica, the oldest in the Antilles. The Riffort, a defensive post on the entrance to the sea, has been used as a telegraph station, radio station, desalination plant, WWII officers' digs, scout hall and is now partly occupied by a ritzy restaurant.  Otrabanda's charm extends beyond its brochure-ready buildings. The maze of streets and lanes wiggling back from the waterfront are fun to wander - stores and houses run the gamut from pastel and spruce to crumbling and spooky. Also, much of the advertising and store signage is hand painted, giving the streets perky, individual characters.  The Cura ao Museum in western Otrobanda is housed in a 19th-century sailors' hospital. Displays include paintings by early-20th-century Dutch masters, a carillon and a menagerie of other musical instruments, and a hat-making diorama (hats were a source of income for many women up until WWI). There are also worthy exhibitions on the local Indian population and the geology of the ABC islands.  
caribbean_curacao_environment.html:  Environment  The 'ABC' islands - Aruba, Bonaire and Cura ao - are strung along the balmy southern reaches of the Caribbean Sea about 45 miles (70km) north of Venezuela. Cura ao is the politically dominant partner in the Netherlands Antilles (a federation comprising Bonaire, Saba, St Eustasius and the Dutch part of St Martin). It lies about 40 miles (65km) east of Aruba and about 30 miles (50km) west of Bonaire. The island is 37 miles (60km) from tip to toe and roughly 5 miles (8km) wide, just slightly smaller than Andorra. Its highest elevation is 1240ft (370m) Mt Christoffel.  Cura ao is scrubby, dusty, prickly and bumpy. The mahogany that was once plentiful on the island is now mostly doing duty as wardrobes and dining tables. Amongst the hardy plantlife that has taken its place is mata pisk (fish killer), a conical evergreen; sabalpalm, which is unique to Curaca o and neighboring Bonaire; and brasilwood, which is so soft that donkey saddles were once crafted from it. Cura ao's thorny family includes climbing snake cactus, candle cactus, melocactus (which resembles barbed testicles) and the pull-no-punches french prickle, which has salmon-colored flowers. The standout cactus on Cura ao is the kadushi, which can grow up to 30ft (10m) tall.  Animals on the island include the frisky white-tailed deer, a bug-eyed frog known as dori, a nonpoisonous arm-length whipsnake and more lizards than is strictly necessary. Flying creatures include chirpy bananaquits, stalky herons, squawky parakeets, tuneful troupials, tooting owls and rare white-tailed hawks.  Cura ao's climate hovers around 82 F (28 C) all year and constant trade winds keep humidity low. Rainfall peaks in November or December but the island is below the hurricane belt and a Cura aon deluge is unlikely to trouble much more than your cocktail umbrella.  
caribbean_curacao_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are generally not required on Cura ao. US and Canadian citizens can visit with proof of citizenship, such as a birth certificate and picture ID. All other travelers need a valid passport. A roundtrip or onward ticket is required.Health risks: Sunburn, fire coral, sea urchins, jellyfish, dehydrationTime: GMT/UTC minus 4 hoursElectricity: 110-130V, 50HzWeights & measures: Mostly metricTelephoning: Country code 599; area code 9 When to Go  Temperature is not an issue when planning a trip to sunny, dry Cura ao, since the average year-round daily high is 82 F (28 C) and constant trade winds keep humidity low. If rain falls, it's usually in November or December. The island lies below the hurricane belt, so there's usually no need to worry about being blown away while on vacation. If you're planning on diving, the most popular sites are at their calmest between September and December. If partying is more your scene, Carnival (February) is a great time to visit, but book early and expect higher prices.  As with most of the Caribbean, the peak tourist season is between December and April, but this has more to do with the weather in North America and Europe than it does with the weather on Cura ao. It's therefore best to visit outside this period, when tourists are thin on the ground and room rates tend to be 30-50% less than those charged during the busier months.     Events   Carnival is Cura ao's biggest event, held every February before Lent. People dressed in wild outfits gather in the Otrobanda district of Willemstad and then shake their way through the streets for three leg-jellying days, stopping here and there to eat, drink and dance to the music of hundreds of competing bands. On Easter Monday the Great Se March celebrates traditional culture in song, dance and costume. Cura ao's long-standing Caribbean Jazz Fest, held for two days every October, is a slightly mellower event that brings international jazz musicians to Willemstad.  Cura aons do celebrate Christmas, but the big gift-giving day is Sint Nicolaas Day on 6 December. Sint Nicolaas is a Dutch Santa Claus figure who arrives in Willemstad's St Anna Bay in late November in a boat laden with candy and gifts for the kiddies. On the eve of Sint Nicolaas Day, children leave a bucket of water and a shoe plugged with hay and carrots for the horse-borne saint. Well-behaved littlies wake up to find their shoes filled with goodies.  In late December, there's a chaotic end of year regatta shmatta from St Barbara to St Anna Bay on Cura ao's southern coast. Competitors can enter with any sort of sailing craft, meaning wily windsurfers try to outgun sleek ocean-going sailboats.   Public Holidays1 January - New Year's DayEaster Holidays - Good Friday, Easter Monday30 April - Queen's Birthday1 May - Labor Day2 July - Flag Day24 December - Christmas Eve (half holiday)25 December - Christmas Day26 December - Boxing Day31 December - New Year's Eve (half holiday)back to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to Cura aoTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_curacao_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This gorgeous sheltered beach on the northwestern tip of Cura ao is the perfect place to get photos of yourself to make your friends jealous. How about one of you sitting contemplatively on dappled rocks, looking out into the turquoise haze of the Caribbean Sea? Or one of you on a deckchair under a palm tree, sipping a cool drink (available from the rustic snack-shack set back from the beach)? And if you can't tear yourself away, don't: there's a low-key resort on the Kadushi Cliffs overlooking the beach. Playa Kalki is a lazy 45 minute drive from Willemstad.  
caribbean_dominica_activities.html:  Activities  Dominica has excellent hiking and much of the island's rainforests, rivers and waterfalls are within easy reach of the larger towns. In the Northern Forest Reserve, there's an easy hike through a parrot reserve and a rugged trail to the top of the island's highest mountain. The Morne Trois Pitons National Park offers treks into the wilderness that range from jaunts through verdant jungles to an all-day trek across a steaming volcanic valley that ends at a boiling lake. If you're tired of walking, you can rent a mountain bike in Soufriere and explore old estate trails and the nearby sulfur springs.  Dominica doesn't have the picture-postcard beaches usually associated with the Caribbean, since most of the island's sand is black. The best beaches are in the Portsmouth area in the northwest. The eastern coast is largely rugged with high surf, but there are a few pockets of golden sand just south of Calibishie where the water is sometimes calm enough for swimming and snorkeling.  Dominica has superb diving. The island's rugged scenery continues underwater, where it forms sheer drop-offs, volcanic arches, pinnacles and caves. Many of Dominica's top dive sites are in the Soufriere Bay area, off the island's southwestern coast, where the walls and caves are rife with stingray, snapper, barracuda, parrotfish, huge tube sponge and soft coral. There are also a number of good dive sites off the northern coast, notably at Castaways Reef, Grande Savane, Rodney's Rock, Toucari Bay and the wrecks of a barge and tug off Canefield. Calm waters suitable for swimmers, snorkelers and inexperienced divers can be found around Champagne, a sub-aquatic hot spring off Pointe Guignard where crystal bubbles rise from underwater vents.  The island's deep surrounding waters offer excellent whale and dolphin watching. Sperm whales are most commonly sighted between October and March. You can also spot orca, pygmy sperm whales, pygmy killer whales, false killer whales and pilot whales. Paddling a kayak around Soufriere Bay or along the western coast to snorkeling sites that can't be reached by land is a great way to experience the marine environment.  
caribbean_dominica_attractions.html:  Attractions  While Roseau (pronounced 'rose-oh') is one of the region's poorer capitals, it's not the grimmest. Shopkeepers wash down the sidewalks every morning, the streets are lined with old stone-and-wood buildings, and mountains form a verdant backdrop. The city has rebuilt its waterfront, which was severely damaged by Hurricane David, and it now boasts a new cruise ship dock and promenade. There are a growing number of modern cement structures too, since this is a functional market town, but for the most part walking Roseau's quieter backstreets feels like stepping back a hundred years in time.  You can get a reminder of the more inhumane aspects of Dominica's colonial past in the cobblestone plaza of the Old Market, the site of a former slave market, where a wrought iron Victorian-style memorial marks the old block where slave auctions took place. There are interesting displays on the slave trade, Creole and Amerindian culture at the Dominica Museum. At the public market you can find fresh fruit, vegetables and herbs; the blowing of a conch shell signals fresh fish for sale. Other worthwhile sights include the old stone Catholic cathedral, the botanical gardens, the Anglican church, and the public library, built in 1905 with funds from US philanthropist Andrew Carnegie.  
caribbean_dominica_environment.html:  Environment  Dominica is 500 miles (805 km) northeast of Caracas, Venezuela, and 375 miles (605 km) southeast of San Juan, Puerto Rico. Its nearest neighbors are Guadeloupe (60 mi/95 km north) and Martinique (55mi/90 km south). Slightly larger than Guam and shaped a bit like a bottle of port, Dominica is 29 miles (47km) long and 16 miles (26km) wide. It has the highest mountains in the Eastern Caribbean; the loftiest peak, Morne Diablotin, is 4750ft (1450m) high. The mountains, which act as a magnet for rain, serve as a water source for the more than 200 rivers that run down the mountain valleys. En route to the coast many of the rivers cascade over steep cliff faces, giving the island an abundance of waterfalls.  More than 160 bird species have been sighted on Dominica, giving it some of the most diverse bird life in the Eastern Caribbean. Of these, 59 species nest on the island, including two endemic and endangered parrot species. Dominica's national bird, the Sisserou, also called the Imperial Parrot, is about 20in (50cm) long when full grown, the largest of all Amazon parrots. Other critters include large crapaud frogs, lizards, 13 species of bat, 55 of butterfly, boa constrictors that grow nearly 10ft (3m) in length and four other types of snakes (none poisonous).  Dominica is well known for its vast rainforests, but the island also has montane thickets, dry scrub woodlands, evergreen forests, fumarole vegetation, cloud forests and elfin woodlands. The most abundant tree on the island is the gommier, a huge gum tree that's traditionally been used to make dugout canoes. The most colorful of Dominica's endemic plants is its national flower, the bwa kwaib, or Carib tree. A deciduous shrub, it's found on the island's drier west coast. In spring, the bare branches of this shrub suddenly become thick with hundreds of scarlet flowers, adding a bright splash to the countryside.  In January the average high temperature is 85 F (29 C) while the low averages 68 F (20 C). In July the average high is 90 F (32 C) while the low averages 72 F (22 C). The driest months are February to June. All these statistics are for Roseau - the mountains are cooler and wetter.  
caribbean_dominica_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most visitors to Dominica must have a valid passport, but US and Canadian citizens can enter with just proof of citizenship, such as a photo ID and an official birth certificate. French nationals may visit for up to two weeks with a Carte d'Indentite. Only citizens of former Eastern Bloc countries require visas. A roundtrip or onward ticket is officially required of all visitors.Health risks: Sunburn, diarrhea and intestinal parasites; leptospirosis can be present in freshwater streams.Time: GMT/UTC minus four hoursElectricity: 220/240V, 50 HzWeights & measures: ImperialTelephoning: From North America, dial 1 + 767 + the seven-digit local number. From elsewhere, dial your country's international direct dialing prefix + 1 + 767 + the seven-digit local number. When to Go  Dominica is balmy, rarely getting below 85 F (29 C) on the coast, though the mountains are cooler and wetter. Peak-season winter (December to February) rates are similar to off-season summer (June to August) rates, so the best time to visit Dominica is definitely in winter.     Events  Dominica's Carnival celebrations are held during the traditional Mardi Gras period, in the two weeks prior to Lent (February/March). It includes calypso competitions, a Carnival Queen contest, 'jump-ups' and a costume parade. Creole Day, usually held on the Friday before Independence Day (3 November), is a celebration of the island's Creole language and culture. It includes traditional dancing, folklore, food and music.    
caribbean_dominica_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This national park, in the southern half of the island, encompasses 17,000 acres (6880 hectares) of Dominica's mountainous volcanic interior and contains many of the island's top wilderness sites. Most of the park is primordial rainforest, varying from jungles thick with tall, pillar-like gommier trees to the stunted cloud forest cover on the upper slopes of Morne Trois Pitons (4550 feet [1389m]) itself.  Emerald Pool, at the northernmost tip of the park, is a small basin in a lush green setting at the foot of a gentle waterfall. It's on the road that runs between Canefield and Castle Bruce, a drive which goes through jungle vegetation and has mountain views and lots of beep-as-you-go hairpin turns. The pool is a five-minute walk from the road, through a rainforest of ferns and tall trees.  Dominica's preeminent trek is the rugged day-long hike to Boiling Lake, the world's second-largest actively boiling lake. Geologists believe the 207-foot-wide (63m) lake is a flooded fumarole, a crack in the earth that is allowing hot gases to vent from the molten lava below. The eerie-looking lake sits inside a deep basin, its grayish waters veiled in steam, emitting bubbly burps.  
caribbean_grenada_activities.html:  Activities  Grenada's most popular beaches for sunbaking and swimming are all in the southwest of the island. They include the fine sweep of white sand at Grand Anse, nearby Morne Rouge Bay and True Blue. Calvigny Island, off the island's southwestern coast, has a couple of pretty beaches; you can reach them by shuttle boat from Secret Harbour or by asking fisherpeople around Woburn Pier. If you want to have a beach to yourself, head to Carriacou.  The waters around Grenada have extensive reefs, with good coral, fish, turtles and other marine life. Dives come in a variety of flavors, including shallow reefs, walls, drifts and shipwrecks. The best sites are Bose Reef, Dragon Bay and Grand Mal Point. It's also worth checking out the unpopulated islands between Grenada and Carriacou. Kick 'em Jenny is worth visiting for the name alone, but the tiny island is also surrounded by pristine waters with great visibility; there's a sheer wall dive at Sisters Island. Moliniere Point, just north of St George's, has the island's best snorkeling, although land access is difficult. If you're interested in game fishing, blue marlin, white marlin, sailfish and yellowfin tuna swim in Grenada's waters. The best catches are in the winter months.  Good hiking trails wind through the Grand Etang rainforest, which occupies the center of Grenada. They include the Mt Qua Qua Trail, which leads to the top of a ridge with fine views of the forest; the Seven Sisters Falls Trail, which leads to a series of seven waterfalls; and the gentle but frequently muddy Grand Etang Shoreline Trail. There's also a network of short walking trails in the La Sagesse Nature Centre, on the island's southeastern coast. The trails explore the former estate of the late Lord Brownlow, a cousin of Queen Elizabeth II.  
caribbean_grenada_attractions.html:  Attractions  The picturesque hillside town of St George's surrounds a deep horseshoe-shaped harbor and is widely regarded as one of the prettiest spots in the Caribbean. It has a charming setting, steep twisting streets and pastel-hued 19th-century Creole houses, many of them roofed with red fishscale tiles brought over as ballast on ships from Europe. Cargo vessels, cruise ships and colorfully painted wooden schooners from Carriacou dock in the busy harbor, known as the Carenage. It's surrounded by mercantile houses, warehouses and quayside cafes, then by the steeply tiered streets of St George's and, finally, backed by Grenada's lush green hills.  The winding maze of streets and alleys on the west side of the Carenage are fun to wander around; check out the policemen directing traffic at blind street corners. The Grenada National Museum in the center of town incorporates an old French barracks dating from 1704. Its hodgepodge of exhibits include fragments of Amerindian pottery, an old rum still and a grubby marble bathtub that once belonged to Empress Josephine.  The hilltop Fort George, established by the French in 1705, has fine views from the harbor's western promontory across the town's red-tiled roofs and church spires and over the Carenage. In the fort's inner compound you can see the bullet holes in the basketball pole made by the firing squad that executed Maurice Bishop. The spot is marked by fading graffiti reading 'No Pain No Gain Brother.'  The late-18th-century Fort Frederick protects the harbor's eastern entrance and has panoramic views of Grenada's southwestern coastline. The fort is well intact, thanks in part to a tragic targeting blunder made during the US invasion of 1983. The US intended to hit Fort Frederick but mistakenly bombed Fort Matthew, just a few hundred yards to the north, which was being used as a mental hospital at the time of the attack.  
caribbean_grenada_environment.html:  Environment  Just 60 miles (100 km) north of Venezuela, Grenada is the largest of the three small islands that make up the Caribbean nation of the same name. Completing the threesome are Carriacou and Petit Martinique, the most southerly of a long string of coral islands stretching north to neighboring St Vincent. Trinidad and Tobago are Grenada's only Caribbean neighbors to the south.  Grenada has a varied ecosystem of rainforests, montane thickets, elfin woodlands and lowland dry forests. Mona monkeys swing within wooded areas, and opossums, armadillos, mongoose, pelicans, osprey hawks and rarely seen tree boas roam throughout the island. Among the endangered species are sea turtles and hook-billed kites.  Temperatures in Grenada are balmy year round, with daily highs averaging around 80 F (30 C). The rainy season lasts from June to November, and rain falls on average on 22 days a month during this period. Even in the driest months, between January and April, it rains 12 days a month - which accounts for the island's lush vegetation.  
caribbean_grenada_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Passports are not required of citizens of the US, Canada or the UK, as long as they have proof of citizenship. Citizens of other countries must have a valid passport.Health risks: Dengue fever, sunburn, diarrhea and intestinal parasitesTime: GMT/UTC minus 4 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: ImperialTourism: 400,000 visitors annually When to Go  With warm weather and temperatures averaging 80 F (27 C) yearround, there really isn't a bad time to visit Grenada. The rain falls each month, though not every day, with a bit more during the rainy season between June and November. The second weekend in August is when to catch Carnival, the island's biggest and busiest event, so make sure to reserve in advance to enjoy the festivities. Winter is prime fishing season and, accordingly, the Spice Island Billfish Tournament, which draws anglers from around North America and the Caribbean, is held annually in January.     Events  Grenada's biggest festival is Carnival, held on the second weekend in August. It includes calypso and steel band competitions, all sorts of costumed revelry, a pageant and a grand finale 'jump-up' on the following Tuesday. Many of Carnival's events are held at Queen's Park, on the north side of St George's. The Spice Island Billfish Tournament held in January attracts anglers from North America and the Caribbean keen to hook its six-figure first prize. Carriacou's four-day Carnival usually takes place in February. The Carriacou Regatta, a major sailing event featuring races to Grenada, Union Island and Bequia, is held in late July or early August. It's accompanied by additional sporting events and plenty of music and dancing.    
caribbean_grenada_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This undeveloped beach of speckled coral sands offers a 30-foot-wide pool protected from the strong Atlantic Ocean currents by a rock shelf that parallels the northside of the shoreline. A new visitor facility has some simple displays on shells, coral and ecology, as well as restrooms. Off the beach are three islands: Sugar Loaf is a privately owned island with a cottage on its south shore; Green Island has a few abandoned buildings and no beach; and Sandy Island has an abandoned hotel and a nice beach for swimming and snorkeling on its leeward side. Bathways Beach can be reached by vehicle along a good road leading northeast from River Sallee, and fishing boats can be chartered from Sauteurs to the islands offshore.  
caribbean_guadeloupe_activities.html:  Activities  Guadeloupe has many fine beaches, some of which are of the clothing-optional variety. There are white-sand beaches in the resort towns of Gosier, Sainte-Anne and Saint-Fran ois. On the northern side of the peninsula leading to Pointe des Ch teaux are a couple of remote beaches: Anse a la Gourde, a gorgeous sweep of white coral sands, and Anse Tarare, an adjacent nudist beach. While most of Grande-Terre's eastern coast has rough surf, there's a swimmable beach at Le Moule and a little protected cove at Porte d'Enfer. On the western side of Grande-Terre, Port-Louis is the most popular swimming spot, with a broad sandy beach that attracts weekend crowds. On Basse-Terre, the best beaches are along the northern side of the island just north of Deshaies: Grande Anse beach, with its expansive golden sands, and Plage de Tillet, a secluded clothing-optional cove.  The country has many first-rate snorkeling and diving sites. Guadeloupe's top diving site is the Reserve Cousteau at Pigeon Island off the western coast of Basse-Terre. Ilet du Gosier, which can be reached by boat from Gosier on Grande-Terre, is a snorkeler's dream. Spearfishing has long been banned and consequently the island's waters are teeming with fish, sponges, sea fans and corals.  Guadeloupe has good surfing from October to May at Le Moule, Port-Louis and Anse Bertrand, and from June through August at Sainte-Anne, Saint-Fran ois and Petit-Havre. Windsurfing is centered near the resorts on the southern side of Grande-Terre and on the island of Terre-de-Haut.  You can hike many short trails on Guadeloupe that take in waterfalls, primordial rainforest and botanical gardens. Serious hikers head for longer, more rigorous trails in the Parc National de la Guadeloupe, including one to the volcanic summit of La Soufriere and another to the base of Chutes du Carbet, the Eastern Caribbean's highest waterfalls.  
caribbean_guadeloupe_attractions.html:  Attractions  Guadeloupe's largest municipality, Pointe-a-Pitre, is a mix of old and new: largely commercial in appearance, it's peppered with colonial architecture and West Indian flavor. The city began as a fish market at the edge of the harbor in 1654, and there's still a lively, colorful open-air publicmarket running along La Darse, the inner harbor. Women wearing madras cloth turbans sell island fruit, vegetables, flowers, pungent spices, handicrafts and clothing while boats along the dock sell fresh fish. The hub of town is the Place de la Victoire, an open space punctuated with tall royal palms and sidewalk cafes.  The city has a couple of good museums, including the Musee Schoelcher, dedicated to abolitionist Victor Schoelcher and featuring artifacts relating to slavery, and the Musee Saint-John Perse, which occupies an attractive 19th-century Creole home with ornate wrought-iron balconies. The museum is dedicated to the renowned poet and Nobel laureate Alexis Leger (1887-1975), better known as Saint-John Perse.  
caribbean_guadeloupe_environment.html:  Environment  Guadeloupe proper comprises twin islands divided by a narrow mangrove channel, the Riviere Salee. The islands are volcanic in origin, with a total land area about half the size of Luxembourg. The two main islands join to form the shape of a butterfly, though while their outline is roughly symmetrical, the topography is anything but. The eastern wing, Grande-Terre, has gently rolling hills and level plains, much of which are cultivated in sugar cane. The western wing, Basse-Terre, is dominated by rugged hills and mountains wrapped in a dense rainforest of tall trees and lush ferns. Much of the interior of Basse-Terre has been set aside as a national park. It includes the Eastern Caribbean's highest waterfalls and Guadeloupe's highest peak, the 1470m (4810ft) smoldering volcano, La Soufriere.  Of the nearby offshore islands, Les Saintes are high and rugged, Marie-Galante is relatively flat and La Desirade has an intermediate topography with hills that rise to 270m (895ft).  The islands' diverse vegetation ranges from mangrove swamps to mountainous rainforest. Basse-Terre has an abundance of tropical hardwood trees, including lofty gommiers and large buttressed chataigniers, plus thick fern forests punctuated with flowering heliconia and ginger. Birds found on Guadeloupe include various members of the heron family, pelicans, hummingbirds and the endangered Guadeloupe wren. The bright yellow-bellied bananaquit, a small nectar-feeding bird, is frequently seen supping at unattended sugar bowls in open-air restaurants. Guadeloupe has mongooses aplenty, which were introduced long ago in a futile attempt to control rats in the sugar cane fields. Agoutis (short-haired, rabbit-like rodents that look a bit like a guinea pig) are found on La Desirade, as are iguanas, which also roam Les Saintes.  Pointe-a-Pitre's average high temperature in January is 28 C (83 F), while the low averages 20 C (68 F). In July, the average high is 30 C (88 F), while the low averages 23 C (75 F). February to April are the driest months, when measurable rain falls an average of seven days a month and the average humidity is 77%. July and November are the wettest months, when rain falls for about 14 days and the humidity averages 85%. Hurricanes come to call during this humid time. Because of its elevation, Basse-Terre is both cooler and rainier than Grande-Terre. The trade winds, called alizes, often temper the climate.  
caribbean_guadeloupe_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are not required of citizens of the US, Canada or the European Union. Citizens of the EU need an official identity card, passport or valid French carte de sejour. Citizens of most other foreign countries, including Australia, need a valid passport and visa for France. All visitors officially require a return or onward ticket.Health risks: Sunburn, diarrhea and intestinal parasites; bilharzia (schistosomiasis) is found in fresh water throughout Grande-Terre and in much of Basse-Terre.Time: Atlantic Time (GMT/UTC minus 4 hours)Electricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 350,000 visitors per year When to Go  Guadeloupe is warm year-round, but the evenings are coolest in winter (December to February), when temperatures linger in the mid-balmies. February to April are the driest months, with rain falling an average of seven days a month and the humidity keeping in the realm of the tolerable. This is the best time to go, and as such it's also the peak tourist season. The wettest months are July to November, which is also hurricane season, so keep an eye on the weather reports. Most cultural events take place in the spring and summer.     Events   Carnival celebrations, held during the traditional week-long Mardi Gras period that ends on Ash Wednesday, feature costume parades, dancing, music and other festivities. The F te des Cuisinieres (Festival of Women Cooks) is held in Pointe-a-Pitre in early August. Women in Creole dress, carrying baskets of traditional foods, parade through the streets to the cathedral where they are blessed by the bishop. The parade is followed by a banquet and dancing. Also in early August is the Tour Cycliste de la Guadeloupe, a 10-day international cycling race.   Public Holidays:January 1 - New Year's DayEaster Holidays - Ash Wednesday, Good Friday, Easter Sunday, Easter MondayMay 1 - Labor DayMay 8 - Victory Day40th day after Easter - Ascension Thursday8th Monday after Easter - Pentecost MondayMay 27 - Slavery Abolition DayJuly 14 - Bastille DayJuly 21 - Schoelcher DayAugust 15 - Assumption DayNovember 1 - All Saints' DayNovember 11 - Armistice DayDecember 25 - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to GuadeloupeTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_guadeloupe_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Small, unhurried Terre-de-Haut is French in nature, Mediterranean in appearance and, all in all, one of the most appealing islands in the Caribbean. It's a tiny package with a lot to offer, including a beautiful landscape of volcanic hills and deep bays, though it can get overrun with tourists on weekends and in the height of the season. Many islanders still rely on fishing as a mainstay. You can often find them mending nets along the waterfront and see their colorful locally made boats, called saintoises, lining the shore.  Terre-de-Haut's history stands apart from other places in Guadeloupe; since the island was too hilly and dry for sugar plantations, slavery never took hold. Consequently, the population is largely comprised of 'blue eyes' who still trace their roots to the early seafaring Norman and Breton colonists. Home to most of the island's residents, Bourg des Saintes is a picturesque village with a decidedly Norman accent. Its narrow streets are lined with whitewashed red-roofed houses with shuttered windows and yards of flowering hibiscus. It's a bustling place at ferry times, quiet at others, and always fun to kick around in. There are small restaurants, ice-cream shops, scooter rentals, art galleries and gift shops clustered along the main road, which is pedestrian-only during the day. The well-preserved mid-19th-century Fort Napoleon, on the northern side of the harbor, is surrounded by cacti gardens.  
caribbean_haiti_activities.html:  Activities  Most of Haiti's good beaches are north of Port-au-Prince and northwest of Cap-Ha tien. If you'd rather stay underwater, be sure to check out the diving. The beaches are surrounded by coral reefs that took their toll on ships lost by the Dutch, French and Spanish during the 17th and 18th centuries. At Amani, near St Marc, divers descend the famous Zombie Hole, a 200m-deep hole that is home to what is believed to be the world's largest sea sponge, the Elephant's Ear. Near the coast of La Gon ve is a spectacular wall covered with black coral.   Hiking is also popular, particularly in Macaya and La Visite national parks. Cloud forests, alpine meadows, waterfalls and complex limestone cave systems all await exploration. There are also a few places that offer horseback riding, but ask to inspect the horses before making a commitment.  Wherever brushy undercover or remnant forests survive, bird watching is likely to be rewarding. Flamingos, herons, ibises and many species of duck make their homes on the water, while more flamboyant Hispaniolan parakeets, golden swallows and Antillean siskins are common wherever there are pine trees. Several species of hummingbirds make their homes here as well; bring binoculars.  
caribbean_haiti_attractions.html:  Attractions  Gingerbread trim and a view of the harbor are about all Port-au-Prince has in common with other Caribbean capitals. It's crammed with people soldiering on amidst rundown buildings, open sewers, brightly colored murals and the haphazard lurching and zooming of taptaps, public buses emblazoned with fine art and Creole sayings. Much of the activity is centered on the Marche de Fer (the Iron Market), a 19th-century iron and tin mix of Parisian class and African style. It's chaos inside, packed with stalls, vendors and piles of fruit, baskets, soap, religious totems and toys. It's hot, noisy and likely to overwhelm the faint of heart.  Good places to seek post-shopping repose are the Cathedrale de Port-au-Prince, where the decor owes as much to Africa as to Rome, and the Cathedrale de la Ste Trinite, where you can gaze up at murals by some of the country's most famous artists. The Musee d'Art Ha tien du College St Pierre has an excellent collection of paintings. The Musee National is more of a national curio cabinet, featuring King Christophe's suicide pistol and a rusty anchor reputed to have been salvaged from Columbus' Santa Maria. There are areas of the capital travelers should avoid, chiefly the shantytowns on the northern edge of the city.  
caribbean_haiti_environment.html:  Environment  Haiti is the most densely populated country in the Western Hemisphere and makes up 27,750 sq km (10,714 sq mi) of the western third of Hispaniola, the second-largest island in the Caribbean. It's near the center of the West Indies, about 960km (594mi) south of Florida and 450km (280mi) north of Venezuela. Haiti contains a few remaining cloud-forested mountains and some fertile river valleys, although much of the countryside suffers from desertification and erosion. It has two large peninsulas, the northern and southern claws, which are separated by the Golfe de la Gon ve. Here, the largest of Haiti's ofshore islands, le de la Gon ve, is easily accessible.  Haiti's name comes from the Arawak word for 'mountainous land;' indeed, 60% of all terrain is on gradients of 20% or higher. Major mountain ranges include the Massif de la Hotte on the southern claw, boasting the 2347m-high (7700ft-high) Pic Macaya; the Massif de la Selle, running west to east just southeast of Port-au-Prince, peaking out at Pic La Selle (2674m, 8770ft); and in the north, the spectacular Chaine du Bonnet, visible from the Citadelle. Numerous mountain streams burble down the hillsides, but the only navigable river is the broad Artibonite, which begins at the Dominican border and empties just north of St Marc.  Many Haitians, beset by rolling 12-hour electricity blackouts, rely on wood for cooking and many other activities. The resulting deforestation has left only 3% of Haiti untouched, and much rich topsoil has washed into the sea, where it chokes the reefs and marine life. In an effort to save the remaining virgin forest, four national parks struggle to survive: For t des Pins, in the southeast next to the Dominican border; Parc La Visite, with limestone caves and rainforests 40km southwest of Port-au-Prince; Parc Macaya, at the western end of Haiti's southern claw; and Parc Historique La Citadelle, in the center of the Massif du Nord, near Cap-Ha tien.  Haiti boasts astounding biodiversity, thanks in part to the nine distinct biomes ranging from sea level to almost Alpine heights. The 5000 plant species include more than 600 ferns and 300 orchids, as well as several native cacti. More than 25 species of bird are endemic, with many others overnighting here during travels between the continents. Only two native mammals survive: the Hispaniolan hutia, which looks like a small mole, and the solendon, a rodent locally known as nez longue (long nose) for its prominent proboscis.  Haiti's climate is generally hot and humid, and temperatures vary more over the course of a day than from season to season. Highs are generally around 30 C (85 F), while nighttime lows can reach 20 C (65 F). The summer (June toAugust) can be slightly hotter than the winter, while temperatures drop markedly at higher elevations. The rainy season varies: Along the northern coast, it runs from October to May, while the southern claw can expect rain from May to October.  Haiti's four-month-long hurricane season is summed up in this popular rhyme: 'June - too soon, July - stand by, August - a must, September - remember.' Of course, August isn't always the season's peak; Hurricane Georges, which rolled through Hispaniola to the tune of 250 dead and US$1.2 billion in damages, happened in September 1998. If a hurricane is forecast during your Haitian holiday, consider getting off the island or retreating (at least) a few kilometers inland.  
caribbean_haiti_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors require a valid passport; citizens of Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Israel, Liechtenstein, Monaco, South Korea, Switzerland, UK and USA do not require visas. Others must have a three-month tourist visa, which can be obtained upon arrival with a completed application (provided by an embassy or consulate), two passport-size photos and a fee of US$5.40. Check with any Haitian embassy for the latest requirements.Health risks: Malaria, hepatitis A, tuberculosis, dengue fever, sunburn. Don't drink Haitian tap water, and be wary of food that might have been washed in tap water.Time:GMT minus four hours, with no adjustment for daylight saving timeElectricity: 115-125V AC, 60 Hz, two- and three-pin flat-pronged plugs; many areas receive up to 12 hours of rolling blackouts each dayWeights & measures: Metric with some US measurements When to Go  Haiti has two rainy seasons, from April to May and from September to October, with most rain falling in the mountains. If you plan to do much hiking, trekking or even driving, these might be months to avoid. The June-to-September hurricane season might be worth missing as well; though the chances of one blowing through are miniscule, remember that one little hurricane can wreck your whole holiday. The temperature is fairly constant year-round, with highs averaging around 34 C (95 F) in the summer and 30 C (85 F) in the winter. There isn't currently a peak tourist season, making Haiti an ideal destination during the Northern Hemisphere's winter, when most Caribbean isles are packed with snowbirds slurping umbrella-laden beverages and raising the prices of food, accommodations and everything else.  It's worth planning a visit to Haiti around Carnival (the three days leading up to Ash Wednesday) or Rara (the week leading up to Easter), when music and dancing seem to erupt spontaneously. Avoid the weeks leading up to an election, including the presidential election in December 2000, when less pleasant but equally spontaneous eruptions of passion tend to make their mark.     Events  It's worth planning your visit to coincide with Haiti's special events. Carnival, or Mardi Gras, cranks up the days leading up to Ash Wednesday, with Port-au-Prince as ground zero for the festivities. Haiti's top bands load up floats with massive sound systems and cruise streets that are packed with people dancing, singing and blowing off steam.  Carnival precedes Rara, dubbed the 'rural Carnival.' The week leading up to Easter is alive with an African beat as roads all over Haiti swell with bands of revelers, percussionists and the music of bamboo-and-tin trumpets. It's easy to become immersed in the music as the Rara band moves slowly down the road. Before you know it, you'll find you've followed the festivities for miles.  Two major Vodou pilgrimages take place each year. Saut d'Eau happens July 16 in the village of Ville-Bonheur, when pilgrims make their way to bathe in the sacred waterfall and visit a church built on the spot where the Virgin Mary allegedly appeared in 1884. On July 25, Plaine du Nord celebrates the day of St James, associated with the Vodou spirit Ogou Ferraille. Pilgrims come from all over the country dressed in red-and-blue garb for the ceremonies. On July 26, many celebrants move on to the town of Limonade, where the feast day of St Anne doubles as a day of respect for Erzulie, another Vodou spirit.  Gede, or fetdem takes place November 1 and 2, and is well worth catching. People pile into the cemeteries to pour libations for Baron Samedi around crosses festooned with candles, skulls and marigolds. The uniform of a Gede, the guardians of the cemetery and lords of the erotic, is made up of black and purple clothes, a top hat and mirrored shades. If someone posessed by the Gede acts lasciviously toward you, go with it.   Public Holidays January 1 - Independence Day(Jou d'lan) January 2 - Ancestry Day April 7 - Death of Toussaint Louverture August 15 - Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary October 17 - Death of Jean-Jacques Dessalines November 1 - All Saints November 2 - All Souls November 18 - Vertieres Day December 5 - Discovery of Haiti December 25 - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to HaitiTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_haiti_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  At the tip of Haiti's southern claw, Parc Macaya is the country's best-known national park, and rightly so. The mountains, criss-crossed with rough but beautiful trails, are covered in lush rainforest. The most challenging hike takes eight days round-trip, and the view from the top of Pic Macaya (2347m, 7700ft) is worth every blister. Guides are absolutely essential, and might even loan unprepared hikers a machete, necessary for hacking through the undergrowth.  There are two University of Florida campsites within the park, and both are extremely basic.  
caribbean_havana_activities.html:  Activities  Havana sizzles by night. The weekly Cartelera entertainment newspaper is stuffed with cinema and theatre programs, and listings of galleries, bars, nightclubs and cultural events. Much of the cinema is in English and foreign theatre groups often appear at the Teatro Nacional de Cuba. The Teatro Nacional is also a regular venue of the National Symphony Orchestra and there's a good cafe here, open all night for disco dancing and live salsa music.  If you'd rather do the crawl, Old Havana and Vedado are a wash of bars and nightclubs. There are atmospheric hideaways and plush cabarets on almost every street, but there are a few joints to keep your eye out for. La Bodeguita del Medio off the Plaza de la Catedral is Havana's most celebrated bar. Since Hemingway bent his elbow here, La Bodeguita has become de rigeur, and Salvador Allende, Fidel Castro, Harry Belafonte and Nat King Cole have all left their autographs on the wall. El Floridita, another Hemingway hangout, is on the tour-bus circuit, but this is where frozen daiquiris were invented in the 1920s so you might like to pay your respects. The best and biggest nightclub in Havana is the Tropicana. Each night, more than 200 stillettoed and scantily-clad beauties put on enormous headdresses and take to the stage. The showstopper is the preposterous Dance of the Chandeliers, where a train of dancers, sporting illuminated lamps on their heads, appears on stage linked together by electrical cords.  Dressing up in Havana isn't only about getting into the spirit of things, it's often about getting in the front door. At all the cabarets and many of the nightclubs minimum dress requirements are strictly enforced. This means definitely no shorts or T-shirts, and preferably pants other than jeans.  
caribbean_havana_attractions.html:  Attractions  Old Havana (La Habana Vieja) was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1982, kicking along a restoration process that had begun two decades earlier in the wake of the revolution. Many of Havana's finest buildings have been converted into museums and there are enough churches, palaces, castles, revolutionary monuments and markets here to sate the most ravenous culture vulture. The renovations haven't extended to residential areas, however. Nearly half the housing in the city is in bad repair - about 300 buildings collapse each year - and thousands of city residents have had to be evacuated.  Unmissable sights include the Plaza de la Catedral, one of the most beautiful squares in the city. On weekends the square fills with lively handicraft markets, torpid tourists and street-sweepers who turn their task into a ceremony. The unequal towers of the Catedral de San Christ bal de La Habana dominate the square. Nearby is the Castillo de la Real Fuerza, the oldest extant colonial fortress in the Americas. The west tower is crowned by a bronze weathervane dating back to 1632. La Giraldilla (as the nimble-figured wind-spinner is known) is believed to be Do a Ines de Bobadilla, waiting futilely for her husband, the explorer Hernando de Soto, who set off to Florida on a quest for the Fountain of Youth and was eaten by cannibals.  The Royal Palm-studded Plaza de Armas has been the seat of authority and power in Cuba for 400 years. There's a large secondhand book market here on weekends. The imposing Palacio de los Capitanes Generales on the west side of the square is one of Cuba's most majestic buildings. It has served as Spanish commander's residence, US military governor's residence, presidential palace, city hall and now as the City Museum. Calle Obispo runs off Plaza de Armas and was one of Hemingway's hangouts; today it's a pedestrian-only throughway filled with frivolous fashion stores and alfresco cafes.  Hotels in Old Havana range from the grand to the grungy. Prado, the 19th-century meeting place of Havana society, is now a strip of lovingly restored hotels and scurf-infested apartments, laurels, marble benches and habaneros genially begging for soap. Private rooms of varying standards are available in the area - have a look before you commit yourself. As well as the state-run restaurants, there are a lot of paladares (private restaurants of 12 seats or less) in Old Havana.  
caribbean_havana_facts.html:  When to Go  There isn't a bad time to visit Havana. The hot, rainy season runs from May to October but winter (December to April) is the island's peak tourist season, when planeloads of Canadians and Europeans arrive in pursuit of the southern sun. Cubans take their holidays in July and August, so this is when the local beaches are most crowded. Christmas, Easter and the period around 26 July, when Cubans celebrate the anniversary of the revolution, are also very busy. New Year's Eve coincides with the anniversary of Castro's troops marching into the city, so make hotel reservations early and plan to dance all night.     Events  The Havana Carnival in late February and early March features parades in front of the Capitolio or along the Malec n on Friday, Saturday and Sunday evenings. The Havana International Jazz Festival happens every second year in February. Every other year, the International Guitar Festival gets strumming in May. The Festival of Caribbean Culture is celebrated in June or July, while the International Theater Festival is held in Havana every other September. October has the 10-day Havana Festival of Contemporary Music as well as the Havana Ballet Festival later in the month. The International Festival of New Latin American Film is held in Havana in December of each year.   Public Holidays 1 January - Liberation Day 1 May - Labor Day 25-27 July - Celebration of the National Rebellion 10 October - Day of Cuban Culture 25 December - Christmas Day has been observed as a public holiday since the Pope's visit in 1997back to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to HavanaTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_havana_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Miramar is a prestigious residential neighborhood west of Vedado across the R o Almendares. The scene is set by wide avenues occupied by embassies, expensive shops, lavishly restored mansions and the odd abandoned villa thrown in for revolutionary balance. Streams of late-model, mirror-buffed cars cruise the streets while Miami Vice lookalikes gather on the pavement.  Covetous eyes focus on the posh La Maison, an old mansion where you can buy ready-to-wear fashion as well as jewellery, handicrafts and cosmetics. You can't miss it - just look for the fulanos (Cubans with dollars) wielding mobile phones and Raybans. The Museo del Ministerio de Interior nearby is a must for anyone interested in the Cold War antics between Cuba and the USA. Inside is a delightful grabbag of devilish plots (deodorants used as silencers, exploding cigars, soap dishes filled with plastic explosive and the like) designed to assassinate Castro.  The Marina Hemingway, an enormous residential resort, is further west. Each May the marina hosts the Ernest Hemingway International Marlin Fishing Tournament, guaranteed to turn young bucks into old men of the sea.  
caribbean_jamaica_activities.html:  Activities  Jamaica has a panoply of sports and special-interest activities for those to whom bumming out on the beach spells boredom. Hikers could spend weeks exploring Jamaica's embryonic trail system, mainly in the Blue Mountains, or tramping rough bridle tracks nationwide. Rugged Cockpit Country is little explored, yet tailor-made for experienced hikers. Horseback riding is a great way to explore Jamaica and most resort areas have stables. Many organized rides lead through plantations, with some trekking far into the country's interior. Jamaica's boasts 10 championship golf courses, some of which are regular stops for the PGA and LPGA tours. Tryall Golf Club, 12 miles (19km) west of Montego Bay, is the pre-eminent course.  Jamaica's shores are as beautiful below the surface as they are above, especially along the north coast, where conditions are wonderful for scuba diving. Treasures range from shallow reefs, caverns, and trenches, to walls and drop-offs just a few hundred yards off-shore. Most resorts provide small sailboats, and yachts and cruisers can be rented as part of hotel packages or at daily or weekly rates. Jamaica has spelunkers salivating. The island is honeycombed with limestone caves and caverns, particularly in the west, but extreme caution should always be exercised, especially in unmapped areas.  
caribbean_jamaica_attractions.html:  Attractions  Jamaica's teeming capital city suffers from a negative image that, though partly deserved, belies its many appeals. At first neither welcoming nor beautiful, the city is diminished by squalor, and its culture can be darned right intimidating. Seething tensions simmer below the surface and often boil over. But although there are places visitors are advised to steer well clear of, Kingston is the vibrant heartbeat of Jamaica and its center of commerce and culture. It hustles, it bustles, and it merits a visit, especially during one of the annual festivals.  The view from the mountains reveals leafy foothill suburbs overlooking a magnificent natural harbor. Just north of the waterfront is the historic downtown area, with its high-rise hotels and offices and its urban underclass: hustlers, street vendors, and beggars. New Kingston is uptown, north of the old center.  The Bob Marley Museum, at the reggae superstar's former home in New Kingston, is the city's most visited attraction. Highlights include the singer's simple bedroom with Marley's star-shaped guitar by the bedside, the bullet holes that ripped through the rear wall of the house during an assassination attempt in 1976, and the tree outside beneath which Marley would smoke ganja and practice his guitar.  Downtown Kingston's waterfront area is well and truly ready for its planned restoration, but it's still a good place for a breezy walk, and you can visit the craft market on the wharves. A few blocks westward is the National Gallery, displaying Jamaican works from the 1920s to the present, including a good collection of Edna Manley's sculpture. Every December it hosts a national exhibition of contemporary art.  The majority of budget hotels are on the south side of New Kingston. Pickings are slim downtown where options are mostly glitzy and upmarket. There are heaps of good food options downtown, however: Indian, Chinese and Yankee places rumble for the belly-dollar with local chowmasters. North of New Kingston and running away to the west, Red Hills Rd has plenty of jerk stands. You can smell the spice and smoke as you drive along. Red Hills Rd is also one place for street parties and discos, but regardless of which area you find yourself roaming, reggae music is sure to be blaring. This place jumps!  
caribbean_jamaica_environment.html:  Environment  Columbus described Jamaica as 'the fairest isle that eyes beheld; mountainous...all full of valleys and fields and plains.' Roughly ovoid in shape and lying 90 miles (145km) south of Cuba, it's the third-largest island in the Caribbean. Despite its relatively small size, Jamaica boasts an impressive diversity of terrain and vegetation, although few visitors venture afield to experience this array.  The island is rimmed by a narrow coastal plain pitted with bays everywhere but in the south where broad flatlands cover extensive areas and there are long ruler-straight stretches. Most of the resorts huddle along the north coast, where the vegetation is lush and the beaches are white and sandy. The limestone interior is dramatically sculpted by deep vales and steep ridges, dominated by basket-of-eggs topography such as in Cockpit Country, a virtually impenetrable tract pitted with bush-covered hummocks, vast sinkholes, underground caves and flat valley bottoms. The uplands rise gradually from the west, culminate in the tortuous Blue Mountains in the east, and are capped by Blue Mountains Peak at 7402ft (2220m).  Jamaica's idyllic tropical maritime climate means that dramatic fluctuations in temperature are virtually non-existent. Weather patterns can change quickly, though, especially during rain-prone May to December. Officially, hurricane season lasts from June to November, but relatively few of the hurricanes that sweep the region touch Jamaica. The last great storm to hit the island was Hurricane Gilbert, which roared ashore in 1988, causing immense damage, killing 45 people and leaving one-quarter of the population homeless.  Jamaica's lush climate has allowed a myriad of plant and animal species to thrive, although human habitation over the last 500 years has devastated areas of the island, making many species extinct. Small numbers of wild hogs still roam remote pockets, and there are over 20 species of fruit and insect-eating bats. Otherwise, the only native land mammal is the endangered Jamaican hutia, or coney, a large brown rodent akin to a guinea pig. Imported animals are much more common, such as cattle, goats and mongooses, a weasel-like mammal introduced from India in the late 19th century to control rats, an earlier stowaway introduction themselves. Jamaica has plenty of slithery and slimy creatures: crocodiles are found in wetlands and mangrove swamps along the south coast, lizards and frogs are everywhere, iguanas hang on to survival in remote backwaters, and there are plenty of snakes, none of them poisonous. Birdlife is prolific, although some endemic species have become extinct and many more are endangered. Egrets are commonly seen riding piggyback on cattle. John Crows (actually the ungainly turkey buzzard) are found all over Jamaica. Yellow-breasted bananaquits, sneaky kling-klings (kleptomaniacs when it comes to picnics), owls, doves, woodpeckers, pelicans and hummingbirds can also be spied on the wing.  Jamaica's offshore habitats are prodigal places, especially along the north coast, where the waters are scintillatingly clear. The rainbow-hued reefs support sinuous boulder-like brain corals, soft-flowering corals that sway with the ocean currents, and over 700 species of fish. Marine turtles find Jamaica's beaches appealing as nest sites, although their numbers have suffered at the hands of hunters. The endangered manatee - a warm-blooded marine mammal with a huge bloated body, a blunt snout, and a paddle-like tail - can be seen in swamps in the island's south.  
caribbean_jamaica_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US and Canadian citizens do not need passports for visits up to six months. All other visitors must arrive with a passport, but most western travelers do not need a visa.Health risks: NoneTime: UTC minus 6 hoursElectricity: 110V, 60 HzWeights & measures: Imperial When to Go  Jamaica is a year-round destination thanks to its idyllic tropical maritime climate. Seasons are virtually non-existent and daytime maximum temperatures along the coast hover constantly around 80-86 F (27-30 C). Even up in the Blue Mountains temperatures are only just under 68 F (20 C) for most of the year.  If you plan on spending time on the east coast or in the Blue Mountains, you may wish to take account of the so-called rainy season, which extends from May to November with two peaks: May/June and October/November. Although this time of year is a little more humid than others, rain usually falls for short periods (normally in the late afternoon) and it's quite possible to enjoy sunshine for most of your visit.  The peak tourist season runs from mid-December to mid-April, with Christmas and Easter the busiest weeks. During this period the resort areas of the island are flooded with foreign tourists and hotel prices are highest. You can save wads of money (40% or more at some hotels) by visiting during the less-crowded low season which lasts from May to November.     Events  Jamaica hosts a full calendar of musical, artistic, cultural and sporting events. Reggae Sunsplash and Reggae Sumfest are the biggest rages on the island, held about one week apart in July/August. Sunsplash is held near Ocho Rios, Sumfest in Montego Bay. Both are frenetic beachy music festivals, with A-rated fun and X-rated dancing. Carnival in March or April, the week after Easter, takes place on the university campus in Kingston and at various other places around Jamaica. It's a big blow-out, mainly for Jamaicans, with reggae, calypso and dancehall soca the main booty-shakers, but it's also a tourist attraction in its own right.  There are a number of yacht races on the calendar: the Pineapple Cup Yacht Race, held each February, starts in Miami and finishes in Montego Bay, a distance of 800-plus miles (1288-plus km). Cricket matches are held from laneway to lawn throughout the year. In April, the West Indies team takes on an international challenger in the Cable & Wireless Test Match in Kingston. Jonkanoo is a traditional Christmas celebration in which revelers parade through the streets dressed in masquerade. The festivity has its origins among West African secret societies and was once the major celebration on the slave calendar.    
caribbean_jamaica_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Cockpit Country is a dramatic, sculpted 500-sq-mile (1295-sq-km) limestone plateau in Jamaica's central west. The area is studded with thousands of conical hummocks divided by precipitous ravines. Light plane or helicopter excursions are the most spectacular way to get a sense of the area's scale and beauty, and given that no roads penetrate the region, this is often the only way visitors get to see the Cockpits. Virtually unsullied by humans, the area is replete with wildlife, a temptation for birdwatchers, nature lovers and spelunkers (the Cockpits are laced with caves, most of them uncharted). Most of the trails are faint, rocky tracks, often overgrown slave trails that you can only follow with the aid of a machete. The rocks are razor-sharp, and sinkholes are everywhere, often covered by decayed vegetation and ready to crumble underfoot. Never travel alone here, and don't underestimate how strenuous and hot it can be.  It's easiest to approach Cockpit Country via Montego Bay to the north, where buses and minibuses head to towns like Clark's Town and Windsor on the northern fringe of the wilderness area.  
caribbean_martinique_activities.html:  Activities  Martinique's highlands offer great hiking within easy reach of Fort-de-France, particularly through the rainforest in the Pitons du Carbet or to the ruins of Ch teau Dubuc on the Caravelle Peninsula. More strenuous trails lead up the flanks of Mont Pelee in the northwestern corner of the island and around the undeveloped northern coast.  Many of Martinique's nicest white or tan-sand beaches and best swimming are on the southwestern coast; the gray- and black-sand beaches on the northeastern coast generally have dangerous water conditions. In the Trois-Ilets area, Anse-a-l'Ane and Anse Mitan both have sandy beaches that attract crowds. Popular east-coast beaches include Cap Chevalier and Macabou to the south and the Caravelle Peninsula beaches of Anse l'Étang and Tartane.  More than a dozen ships were sent to the bottom of Saint-Pierre Bay by the 1902 volcanic eruption, which makes it an excellent area for diving. Grand Anse, with its calm waters and good coral, is a popular dive spot for beginners. Cap Enrage, north of Case-Pilote, has underwater caves housing lots of fish and lobsters. Rocher du Diamant (Diamond Rock) also has cave formations but trickier water conditions. Ilet la Perle, a rock off the northwestern coast, is a good place to see groupers, eels and lobsters when water conditions aren't too rough. Snorkeling is good around Grand Anse and Sainte-Anne, and along the coast from Saint-Pierre to Anse Ceron.  
caribbean_martinique_attractions.html:  Attractions  Although it's the largest and most cosmopolitan city in the French West Indies, much of Fort-de-France's charm lies in its natural setting on the edge of the Baie des Flamands, framed by the Pitons du Carbet rising to the north. The city's mix of narrow bustling streets, parks, offices and turn-of-the-century buildings housing boutiques and cafes gives it a flavor owing as much to the sidestreets of Paris as it does to that of the Caribbean.  The city's focus is the Savane, a large park with fountains, tall palms and occasional open-air concerts. The city's other large waterfront space is the Park Floral, where you can shop for coconuts and other island-grown produce at the public market; there's also a fish market nearby.  Fort-de-France's interesting buildings include the Bibliotheque Schoelcher, an elaborate, colorful structure with a Byzantine dome. Designed by architect Henri Pick and built in Paris for the 1889 World Exposition, it was then dismantled, shipped to Fort-de-France and reassembled. Another Pick creation is the Cathedrale Saint-Louis, dating from 1895 and featuring fine stained-glass windows and a massive organ.  Other places worth visiting include the Palais de Justice, a neoclassical 1906 courthouse resembling a French train station; the Musee Departemental d'Archeologie, which has displays on the island's Amerindian past; and the Aquarium de la Martinique, featuring a tropical river habitat.  
caribbean_martinique_environment.html:  Environment  Martinique is a tiny island located in the eastern Caribbean. It's bordered by the Caribbean Sea to the south and west and the Atlantic Ocean to the north and east. The island of Dominica is Martinique's neighbor to the north; St Lucia is to the south.  Roughly 65km (40mi) long and 20km (12mi) wide, Martinique has a terrain punctuated by hills, plateaus and mountains. The highest point is the 1397m (4582ft) Mont Pelee, an active volcano at the northern end of the island. The center of the island is dominated by the Pitons du Carbet, a scenic mountain range reaching 1207m (3959ft).  Martinique has lots of colorful flowering plants, with the type of vegetation varying with altitude and rainfall. Rainforests cover the slopes of the mountains in the northern interior, which are luxuriant with tree ferns, bamboo groves, climbing vines and hardwood trees like mahogany, rosewood, locust and gommier. The drier southern part of the island has brushy savanna vegetation such as cacti, frangipani trees, balsam, logwood and acacia shrubs. The island has lizards, possums, mongoose and venomous fer-de-lance snakes. Endangered birds include the Martinique trembler, white-breasted trembler and white-breasted thrasher.  Martinique excels in warm, sunny weather, averaging temperatures between 21 C (70 F) and 28 C (83 F) whether it's January or July. Measurable rain falls an average of 13 days a month in April, the driest month, and about twice as often in September, the rainiest month. Martinique's average humidity is high, ranging from 80% in March and April to 87% in October and November. The mountainous northern interior is both cooler and rainier than the coast.  
caribbean_martinique_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US and Canadian citizens can stay up to 3 months by showing proof of citizenship. Citizens of the European Union (EU) need an official identity card, valid passport or French carte de sejour. Citizens of most other foreign countries, including Australia, need a valid passport and a visa for France. A roundtrip or onward ticket is officially required of visitors.Health risks: Sunburn, diarrhea and intestinal parasites; bilharzia (schistosomiasis) can be present in fresh waterTime: GMT/UTC minus 4 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: Estimated 775,000 visitors per year When to Go  Martinique is warm year-round, with temperatures usually peaking close to 30 C (around 85 F) during the day. Humidity is highest in September and lowest in April. The best time to go to Martinique is the slightly cooler, drier season of late winter to early spring (February to May). Note that this is also the peak tourist season and prices will be highest and attractions and lodgings most crowded.     Events  Martinique has a spirited Mardi Gras Carnival during the five-day period leading up to Ash Wednesday each February/March. The streets fill with rum-fueled revelers and there are costume parades, music and dancing. Much of the activity is centered around La Savane in Fort-de-France. Saint-Pierre commemorates the 8 May eruption of Mont Pelee with live jazz and a candlelight procession from the cathedral.  Martinique has several major sporting events, including the Tour de la Martinique, a week-long bicycle race held in mid-July; the Tour des Yoles Rondes, a week-long race of traditional sailboats held in early August; and a semi-marathon around Fort-de-France in November. Music lovers can enjoy the biennial week-long Martinique Jazz Festival, held in December on odd-numbered years, or the guitar festival held on even-numbered years.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day Easter Holidays - Good Friday, Easter Monday Fortieth day after Easter - Ascension Thursday Eighth Monday after Easter - Pentecost Monday 1 May - Labor Day 8 May - Victory Day 22 May - Slavery Abolition Day 14 July - Bastille Day 21 July - Schoelcher Day 15 August - Assumption Day 1 November - All Saints Day 11 November - Armistice Day 25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to MartiniqueTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_martinique_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  One key to the history and culture of Martinique is its rum. When you've processed as much sugar as Martinique has, you end up with a lot of molasses - which tends to turn into rum if you let it sit around long enough.  The best place to start is the Musee du Rhum, just north of Sainte-Marie at the Saint-James Plantation distillery. There are displays of steam-powered sugar-making engines, rum stills and cane-crushing gears. There's also a tasting room where you can sample different rums; if you don't knock back too much you might still be capable of checking out the museum's sugar mill and distillery.  About 5km (3mi) north of Sainte-Marie is Fond Saint-Jacques, the site of an old Dominican monastery and sugar plantation dating from 1660. It was here that a Dominican friar modernized the distilling of rum. The chapel and most of the living quarters are still intact and there are many ruins on the grounds, including those of the mill, distillery basins, boiling house and sugar factory.  
caribbean_puerto_rico_activities.html:  Activities  The best beaches in San Juan are at Isla Verde and Condado, both backed by a fortress wall of high rises. If you want to get out of the city (though not away from the crowds) try picturesque Luquillo, 30km (19mi) east of the capital, which is backed by nothing more intrusive than palm trees. The beaches on the southern coast are more sheltered and have calmer water for swimming than those on the northern Atlantic coast. In the south, there's a gem at Punta Guilarte near Arroyo. The west has a whole series of great beaches; the pick of the bunch is popular Boquer n. If you're exploring the islets off Puerto Rico, Flamenco Beach on Culebra regularly makes most people's regional top 10 list.  The best dives off Puerto Rico are a couple of kilometers offshore, since water visibility nearshore is often clouded by river runoff. Legendary Desecheo Island, west of Rinc n, is perched on the edge of a 9km (5mi) deep submarine canyon and is regarded as one of the ultimate Caribbean diving destinations. Other top sites include La Parguera, off the southwestern coast; the islands of Culebra and Vieques, off Fajardo; Humacao, south of Fajardo; and Mona Island, a six-hour boat trip from Mayagüez. Sections of the northwestern coast near Isabela and Aguadilla offer shore diving, but water conditions can be rough and visibility poor.  You'll also need to hire a boat to reach the very best snorkeling sites. There's a number of spots on the southwestern coast, notably around La Parguera. Other superb spots are the deserted islet of Palomenitos, off the coast of Fajardo, and Mona Island. For something completely different, it's definitely worth renting a boat or kayak to see the nightly displays of bioluminescence at Phosphorescent Bay near La Parguera and at Esperanza on the islet of Vieques.  The best surfing is along the northwestern stretch of coast between Rinc n and Isabela between October and April. Serious windsurfers arrive in winter to take advantage of the swells on the northern Atlantic coast, particularly at Isla Verde. Rinc n and Jobos near Isabela are also pretty hot, though beginners prefer the sheltered waters of San Juan's Condado Lagoon. If you're interested in sailing, Fajardo is the main yachting marina, and there are plenty of boats for hire. San Juan is the main deep-sea fishing charter port. There's world-class marlin, tuna and sailfish in the waters off the capital.  There are hiking opportunities galore in the island's interior, particularly in the rainforest of El Yunque, in the karst region of R o Camuy Cave Park and, for birdwatchers, in the coastal mangroves of the Gu nica Reserve on the southern coast. If birds ain't big enough, there's humpback whale watching from Rinc n between January and March.  Experienced cavers can explore the extensive underground sections of the Camuy River system with National Parks guides. Novices can take an expensive trolley-tram that accesses one cave via a sinkhole - be aware that weekends are so crowded that the experience is more rush hour transit than restful nature. Cockfighting may not be your idea of a relaxing Sunday afternoon, but if you have a strong stomach and want to see what excites the locals, fights take place in galleras in most country towns. The more sedate sport of kite flying is popular on the grassy, breezy slopes surrounding El Morro in San Juan, said to be the world's best kite site.  
caribbean_puerto_rico_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital of Puerto Rico is a spirited modern metropolis with high-rise beach strips, a major commercial center and a justly famous historic colonial core. It dates from the early 16th century, making it the second-oldest city in the Americas (after granddaddy Cuzco, Peru). Today it's the engine of the island's economic and political life and the cultural beachhead for US influence in the Caribbean.  For an old timer, San Juan can seem pretty spry - nothing like strips of high-rise hotels and heaps of hardbodies littered about the beaches to make a town look young. Even Old San Juan seems strangely fresh and so well-preserved given that it's getting on 500 years old. Many Caribbean adventurers never make it past San Juan: there's a lot to be said for being able to lay a towel down on an unmistakably white Caribbean beach while having the culture and quaintness of a historic city and the convenience of a modern metropolis just minutes away. But if daytripping appeals to you, the capital also makes a good base from which to explore the compact island.  
caribbean_puerto_rico_environment.html:  Environment  Puerto Rico is rectangular, sandwiched between the bulk of Hispaniola and the tiny archipelagoes of the leeward islands. The Atlantic Ocean lies to the north and the Caribbean Sea to the south. The mainland measures 175km by 56km (100mi by 35mi), about the size of Corsica, and is roughly bisected by the rugged Cordillera Central, whose high point is the 1340m (4400ft) Cerro la Punta. The hills drain into Puerto Rico's lush northern coast and the drier southern region. The small islands of Vieques and Culebra (to the east) and Mona (to the west) are also Puerto Rican territory.  The rainforest of El Yunque, in Puerto Rico's northeast, is its steamy pride and joy. Birds, reptiles and plantlife thrive in this sodden national park that receives over a billion gallons of rainfall per year. Typical canopy trees include the patient yagrumo humbra which can lie for months on the forest floor before shooting up rapidly to plug a gleaming sliver of sky. Shade-tolerant trees such as ausubo and tabonuco live under the rainforest canopy. Moving south, the countryside becomes much more arid and rocky, incorporating environments such as the Gu nica Dry Forest, unusual for being dry, coastal and tropical. Gu nica includes coastal mangrove stands, cacti and other hardy shrubbery inland and evergreens (lignum vitae) in the hills. The northwestern karst country is hilly, lush and pocked with caves and rocky outcrops.  Puerto Rico's native frogs, known as coqu s, are the beloved symbol of the island, though their presence is experienced much more through sound than sight. Though the largest coqu s are only a couple of inches long, these little croakers belt out a hell of a 'KO-KEE' chant. Though you're unlikely to see one, you'll certainly hear them if you head into the countryside. Their froggy aria is all the more special for its being uniquely Puerto Rican: popular wisdom has it that they stop singing if they're removed from home.  Puerto Rico is balmy year round with daily highs between 75-85 F (24-30 C). Hurricane season is between May and November and, as the terrible destruction wrought by Georges in September 1998 showed, it's worth keeping an eye on weather reports if you're heading to Puerto Rico at this time of year. Usually, hurricane season means that the weather is a fraction hotter, wetter and gustier than at other times, not that debris routinely flies through the streets. The mountains are significantly cooler than the coast but forget about building snowmen even at the height of winter.  
caribbean_puerto_rico_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US citizens do not require visas or passports. Canadians need only bring a photo ID. Citizens of many Western European countries, Australia, New Zealand and Japan can take advantage of a US reciprocal visa waiver program if they intend to stay less than 90 days. Citizens of all other countries require a US visa.Health risks: Sunburn, small risk of hepatitis and bilharzia, being subject to repeated explosions over 190 decibels near the Vieques military training facilityTime: Eastern Time (GMT/UTC minus four hours)Electricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & measures: Mostly metric but some ImperialTelephone: From North America, dial 1 + 787 + the seven-digit local number. From elsewhere, dial your country's international direct dialing prefix + 1 + 787 + the seven-digit local number. When to Go  The peak tourist season is between December and April, but this has more to do with the climate in North America than anything else. During these months the island is swamped by visitors, prices are highest and accommodations can be hard to find. The best time to avoid the crowds is during the official hurricane season (May through November). Although hurricanes are rare, they're able to do more than put a dampener on your holiday. Definitely keep an eye on weather reports if you're in Puerto Rico at this time. If you intend to travel inland bring a sweater for the evenings regardless of when you visit - it's much cooler in them thar hills.     Events  Every Puerto Rican town celebrates its saint's day, often with a mixture of pagan and Catholic iconography and Indian, African and Spanish traditions. There are solemn religious aspects and plenty of feasting, music, dancing and colorful costumed processions. One of the best is the Festival of St John the Baptist in San Juan in late June, which wonderfully fuses the religious and the secular. The highlight of the parade is a communal luck-enhancing midnight walk backwards into the sea. Worth a detour are Mayag ez's twinkling La Virgen de la Candelaria in early February and Lo za's jubilant St James Festival, which takes place late July and celebrates the town's multicultural heritage.  Old San Juan takes to the streets during the Saint Sebastian Street Festival in the third week in January. Ponce, where revellers dress up in horned masks for dancing and parades, is the best place to celebrate Carnival in February. In June San Juan's Casals Festival honors the famous cellist who came to call Puerto Rico home. It attracts classical musicians of international repute and is one of the Caribbean's major cultural events. Puerto Ricans get baseball fever when the season starts in November, reaching its climax in February.   Las Navidades between 15 December and 6 January is the peak period of socializing and religious observation, though many of the celebrations take place at family homes. Not so the riotous Festival of Innocents in Hatillo on 28 December, when masked and costumed participants chase kids through the streets in memory of Herod's bid to wipeout baby Jesus. Look out for parrandas, wandering bands of minstrels and revelers, around Christmas time.    
caribbean_puerto_rico_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Since the US Navy stopped using the archipelago for target practice in the mid-1970s, this cluster of 24 scrubby islands 35km (22mi) off the coast of eastern Puerto Rico has experienced a more beneficial boom. The definition of traffic here is still sharing the road with another vehicle, but more and more travelers and locals are beginning to appreciate the charms of this sleepy backwater, drawn by its beautiful beaches and the fantastic snorkeling and diving offered by its coral reefs.  Culebra itself measures a modest 11km by 6km (7mi by 4mi), but it dominates the archipelago. The island's undistinguished main town, Dewey, contains most of the area's 2000 souls. Travelers should head to the northern coast to Flamenco Beach or to nearby Playa Resaca. The Culebra National Wildlife Reserve encompasses parts of Culebra and the outlying islands, protecting significant seabird colonies and turtle-nesting sites. You can visit the surrounding cays by chatting up the local fishermen or by arranging dives through local operators. There's a ferry to Dewey from Fajardo that takes an hour or so, and air connections to Culebra from both Fajardo and San Juan.  
caribbean_saba_activities.html:  Activities  Saba's stunning scenery extends beneath the surface, with steep wall drops just offshore and some good nearshore reef dives. Most of the island's two dozen dive spots are along the calmer leeward (western) side, between Tent Bay on the south and Diamond Rock on the north.  Some of the more exciting dives include Tent Reef Wall, which has colorful tube sponges and corals and lots of fish activity; Third Encounter, where the coral and sponge-encrusted, 75m (250ft) tall 'Eye of the Needle' towers above the floor; and Diamond Rock, which has a great variety of marine life, including stingrays, black-tip sharks and bull sharks.  For snorkelers, Well's Bay and the adjacent Torrens Point are popular spots, and there's even a marked underwater trail.  The waters surrounding Saba are protected under the auspices of the Saba Marine Park, which has undertaken a number of conservation efforts, including installing permanent mooring buoys at dive sites. To help cover the park's operating expenses, a small marine park fee is added onto each dive.  Saba is not the place to go if you want to lay out on sandy strands. The main swimming spot is Well's Bay at the northwestern side of the island, which has a small, rocky beach. All the island hotels have swimming pools.  Saba has excellent hiking. There are seven signposted hikes, ranging from a 15-minute walk to tide pools just beyond the airport to a steep climb up through a cloud forest to the top of Mt Scenery, Saba's highest point. Some of the trails, such as the Crispeen Track between the Bottom and Windwardside, follow the old footpaths that linked the villages before the first vehicle roads were built. A trail brochure and map is available free at the tourist office in Windwardside.  
caribbean_saba_attractions.html:  Attractions  The island's largest hamlet, Windwardside has curving alleyways lined with picturesque cottages and flower-filled gardens. Being on the windward side of the island, just below Mt Scenery, this hillside village is lush and green and a tad cooler than other parts of the island.  Windwardside makes the best base for visitors, as it has the most hotels, restaurants and shops, as well as the tourist office, the museum, a good art gallery and the trailhead to Mt Scenery. While walking around you'll probably notice that many homes have Dutch doors, the top halves of which are commonly kept open in the evening, allowing people to chat from their living rooms with neighbors strolling by.  The Saba Museum is in a garden-like setting surrounded by wildflowers, including black-eyed Susans, the official island flower. The museum is in a typical Saban home, whitewashed with green-shuttered windows, and re-creates the living quarters of a 19th century Dutch sea captain. There's a four-poster bed with period decor, a collection of pottery fragments, Amerindian hand tools and lots of memorabilia, including maritime documents, sextants and a compass.  Windwardside is just east of the middle of the island, about halfway between Hell's Gate and the Bottom, and connected to each by road.  
caribbean_saba_environment.html:  Environment  Saba is located about 1970km (1225 miles) southeast of Miami, Florida, and 310km (195 miles) east of San Juan, Puerto Rico, near the northern end of the Lesser Antilles. The island forms the westernmost corner of a triangle of islands including Sint Maarten (46km/28mi northeast) and Sint Eustatius (32km/20mi southeast). It's virtually impossible to get lost on Saba. There is only one main road, which runs from the airport at the northeastern side of the island through the villages of Hell's Gate, Windwardside, St John's and the Bottom, and continues down to Fort Bay, the island's main port. A second road connects the Bottom with Well's Bay on the island's northwestern side.  Shaped a bit like a heart (think anatomically, not Valentine's), Saba's land area is small, but because of its topography of folding mountains the island is far more substantial than any mere area measurement would indicate. As the tip of an immense underwater mountain, the island juts out of the sea with no pause for lowlands or beaches. Saba's central volcanic peak, Mt Scenery, is 890m (2900ft), its summit cloaked in clouds.  There are no rivers or streams on the island. The leeward (western) side is dry with cacti and scrub, the windward (eastern) side has thicker vegetation and the mountainous interior is given over to lush jungle growth such as tall tree ferns, palms and mahogany trees.  Saba has a wide variety of flowering plants, ranging from the prolific oleander and hibiscus that decorate its yards to the wildflowers and orchids that thrive in the rainforest. Over 60 species of birds are sighted on Saba, including bridled and sooty terns, brown noddys, tropicbirds on the cliffs and frigatebirds near the coast. Red-tailed hawks can be spotted on the lower slopes, while thrashers and hummingbirds are found at higher elevations. Saba is crawling with harmless racer snakes that sun themselves along trails and roadsides. Expect to see the friendly little Anolis sabanus lizard that's endemic to the island and to hear the tiny tree frogs whose symphony can be almost deafening at night.  The average monthly temperature is 27 C (80 F), with few degrees difference between summer (June to August) and winter (December to February). Because of the difference in elevation, temperatures are a bit cooler in Windwardside than in the Bottom.  
caribbean_saba_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US and Canadian citizens don't need visas or passports, only proof of citizenship. Others need a valid passport, birth certificate or voter's registration and an ongoing ticket.Health risks: SunburnTime: Atlantic Standard Time (GMT/UTC minus 4 hours)Electricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & measures: MetricTelephone: 599-4 When to Go  A comfortably warm year-round temperature makes Saba a good stop any time, though prices are lower during the depths of their sunny winter (December to February), when most potential visitors (ie, North Americans) tend to stay away from the tropics.     Events  The Saba Summer Festival, held in late July, is the island's Carnival. The week-long event includes jump-ups, a queen contest, a calypso king competition, a costumed parade around the Bottom and a grand finale fireworks display. Saba Days, held in early December, feature sporting events, steel bands, dancing, donkey races and barbecues.   Public Holidays1 January - New Year's DayEaster Holidays - Good Friday, Easter Monday30 April - Queen's Day1 May - Labor Day40th day after Easter - Ascension Thursday25 December - Christmas Day26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to SabaTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_saba_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  When you stand at the airport and look up the mountain, you see the village of Hell's Gate, whose houses seem to cling precariously to the slopes. The road from the airport to Windwardside passes directly through the village.  The main landmark in Hell's Gate is the Holy Rosary Church, a seemingly old stone church built just three decades ago. Behind the church, Hell's Gate Community Center sells the best collection of Saba lace on the island as well as bottles of homemade Saba Spice liqueur.  The ride from Hell's Gate to Windwardside is steep and winding. It passes through a variety of terrains, offering some fine scenic views of Saba itself and glimpses of the neighboring islands of Sint Eustatius, St Kitts, Nevis and St Barts.  
caribbean_saint_kitts_and_nevis_activities.html:  Activities  The islands aren't famous for their beaches, but there are a few strands on St Kitts and a couple on Nevis that can make for good walking, picnicking or loafing. St Kitts' best beaches are on the southern end of the island at Frigate Bay and in the sheltered bays along the southeastern peninsula. Beaches along the main body of the island are mostly thin strands of black and gray sands. Running north from Charlestown on Nevis is Pinney's Beach, a long, lovely strand backed by coconut palms. There's also a good white-sand beach on Nevis' northern shore in Newcastle and at Oualie Bay in the northwestern corner of the island.  Despite its limited beaches, St Kitts has healthy reefs and marine life that includes rays, barracuda, garden eels, nurse sharks, sea turtles, sea fans, giant barrel sponges and black coral. A favorite place for snorkeling is White House Bay on St Kitts' southeastern peninsula. A popular scuba dive spot is Sandy Point Bay, below Brimstone Hill, which has an array of corals, sponges and reef fish as well as some coral-encrusted anchors from the colonial era. Among a handful of wreck dives in the bay is the 148ft (45m) freighter River Taw, which sank in 50ft (15m) of water in 1985. Nevis has good diving off its western coast, while Oualie Bay in the north catches the tradewinds and offers windsurfing in shallow waters that's good for beginners; when the wind is up there are also opportunities for wave jumping.  There's some good hiking on the islands, but the tracks into the interior of St Kitts and Nevis are not well defined, so it's advisable to do any major trekking with a guide. Guided hikes are available into the rainforests and estate ruins of St Kitts and up the slopes of Nevis Peak. If you want more speed you can rent a mountain bike on Nevis and do several laps around the island before the sun sets.  
caribbean_saint_kitts_and_nevis_attractions.html:  Attractions  The small undistinguished capital of Basseterre sits on the edge of a wide bay backed by green hills, and is home to nearly half the population of St Kitts. The city's name, which means 'lowland', is one of the few remaining traces of French settlement on the island. The dominant European influence in Basseterre, however, is overwhelmingly British, reflected in the buildings and even the layout of its streets. In a fit of anglophilic urban planning, Basseterre added a traffic roundabout and called it the Circus. While no one could mistake it for Piccadilly, the gridlock might seem familiar.  Although most of Basseterre's historic buildings perished in a fire in 1867, there are a fair number of Victorian stone block buildings topped by wooden second stories decorated with fancy latticework and gingerbread trim. Independence Square is a small public park with a central water fountain; its earlier role as the city's slave market is a reminder of the island's harsh colonial past. Flanking the square is the twin-towered Immaculate Conception Cathedral, dating from 1927. Some of the city's history can be seen at the St Christopher Heritage Society which displays historic photos, Amerindian conch-shell tools and pottery shards.  
caribbean_saint_kitts_and_nevis_environment.html:  Environment  Shaped like a cricket bat, St Kitts measures 23 miles (37km) by 7 miles (11km) wide, and is dominated by Mt Liamuiga, a lofty but dormant volcano. A few miles south of St Kitts is the green, roundish Nevis, which weighs in at only half the size of its neighbor. At the center of Nevis is another tall, dormant volcano, Nevis Peak, which got its name from a deluded Christopher Columbus, who thought its cloud-cloaked summit looked like snow ( neive is Spanish for snow).  
caribbean_saint_kitts_and_nevis_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are not required of most visitors, including citizens of the US, Canada, Western Europe and Commonwealth countries, for stays of up to six months. All visitors need passports except US and Canadian citizens, who may enter with proof of citizenship such as an official birth certificate and a photo ID. Visitors are required to be in possession of a roundtrip or onward ticket.Health risks: Sunburn, lethargy, diarrhea and intestinal parasitesTime: GMT/UTC minus 4 hoursElectricity: 230V, 60 Hz; some hotels use 110VWeights & measures: ImperialTelephoning: When dialing from North America, dial 1 + 869 + the seven-digit local number; when dialing from outside North America, dial the international direct dialing code for the country you're calling from + 869 + the seven-digit local number. When to Go  St Kitts is warm year-round, rarely getting below 72 F (27 C) at night, rarely above 86 F (30 C) by day. Given that rates are higher and places more crowded during the peak winter tourist season (December to February), the best time to go is the summer low-season (June to August); but keep in mind that, if you plan to travel to other Caribbean destinations, some of them are appreciably hotter than St Kitts and Nevis during the summer.     Events  On St Kitts, the biggest event is the week-long Carnival, held from December 24 to January 2. It's celebrated with calypso competitions, costumed street dances and steel band music. In the last week in June, the four-day St Kitts Music Festival brings together top-name soca, salsa and jazz performers from throughout the Caribbean. Nevis has a week-long Culturama from late July to early August featuring music, crafts, parades and cultural events.    
caribbean_saint_kitts_and_nevis_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Despite being Nevis' largest town and commercial center, Charlestown is a sleepy backwater. It has a good collection of colonial buildings, several of which now house museums, making the town a good place to absorb local history. The Museum of Nevis History occupies a Georgian-style building at the site where American statesman Alexander Hamilton was born in 1757. In addition to portraits of Hamilton, the museum has period photographs and other examples of Nevis culture and history. Another European figure is honored at the Horatio Nelson Museum. Nelson stopped off on Nevis in the 1780s, fell in love with the niece of the island's governor and married her. The collection consists largely of mugs and dishes painted with Nelson's image, ceramic statues of the admiral and a few everyday items once used by Nelson.  A short walk south of the town center is a small and largely forgotten Jewish cemetery, which consists of a grassy field with horizontal gravestones. The oldest stone dates from 1684 and quite a few others date from the early 1700s, when an estimated 25% of the non-slave population on Nevis was Jewish. The Bath House, a 15-minute walk south of Charlestown center, is a defunct hotel dating from 1778 that sits above thermal springs. Thought to have regenerative qualities, its mineral-laden waters were the island's main attraction in colonial days, when wealthy visitors flocked here to soak in the warm baths.  
caribbean_saint_lucia_activities.html:  Activities  Despite the island's resort infrastructure, all of St Lucia's beaches are public. There are fine swathes of sand and good swimming on the touristed northwestern coast between Gros Islet and Pigeon Point, and at Choc Beach and Reduit Beach. The southwestern coast has plenty of secret coves and bays, but many are accessible only by boat. The Vieux Fort area, at the southern tip of the island, and Cas-en-Bas on St Lucia's northeastern coast, are popular with experienced windsurfers.  St Lucia's rugged mountain terrain continues beneath the sea as underwater mounts, caves and drop-offs. Most of the diving takes place on the western side of the island since the eastern side is less protected and has rougher water conditions. Anse Chastanet, just north of Soufriere, has been designated as a marine park and boasts nearshore reefs with a wide variety of corals, sponges and reef fish. Its accessibility makes it excellent for both diving and snorkeling. A popular dive spot further south is Key Hole Pinnacles, where coral-encrusted underwater mounts rise to within a few feet of the surface. Another interesting option is the artificial reef that has formed around the 165ft (50m) freighter, the Lesleen, which was deliberately sunk in 65ft (20m) of water at Anse Cochon. Other good snorkeling and diving spots include the area beneath Petit Piton and Gros Piton, the coastal mountains that loom to the south of Soufriere, and Pigeon Island in the main resort area north of Castries.  There are three main hiking trails heading into the mountainous interior on public lands administered by the Department of Forest & Lands. The three-hour return trip to the top of the 1446ft (434m) Morne la Cam on the accessible Barre de L'isle Trail follows the ridge that divides the eastern and western halves of St Lucia. The Des Cartiers Rainforest Trail at the Quilesse Forest Reserve passes through the habitat of the rare St Lucia parrot, and the Edmund Forest Reserve Trail negotiates a rain forest interlaced with orchids and bromelaids and offers a view of St Lucia's highest peak, the 3118ft (935m) Mt Gimie. Most hikers negotiate the latter two trails as part of an organized walk because the trailheads are not easily accessible.  
caribbean_saint_lucia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Castries, the island's commercial center and capital, is a busy port city set on a large natural harbor. The liveliest part of the city is just southeast of the port, at Jeremie and Peynier Sts, where the Castries Market houses scores of produce and handicraft stalls. Founded by the French in the 18th century, the city was ravaged by fire three times between 1785 and 1812, and again in 1948. Consequently most of the city's historic buildings have been lost. One area that survived the last fire was Derek Walcott Square, a quiet central square surrounded by a handful of 19th-century wooden buildings with gingerbread-trim balconies, an attractive Victorian-style library and the imposing Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception. Opposite the cathedral, on the eastern side of the square, is a lofty saman tree that's estimated to be 400 years old.  
caribbean_saint_lucia_environment.html:  Environment  St Lucia is teardrop-shaped, roughly 27mi (44km) in length and 14mi (23km) in width. The interior is largely mountainous, reaching its highest point at the 3120ft (950m) Mt Gimie in the southwest. Deep valleys, many of which are planted with bananas and coconuts, reach down from the mountains.  The Soufriere area has the island's best-known geological features: the twin volcanic cones of the Pitons, which rise up some 2500ft (760m) from the shoreline, and the hot bubbling Sulphur Springs just inland from the town.  St Lucia's vegetation ranges from dry and scrubby areas of cacti and hibiscus to lush jungly valleys with wild orchids, bromeliads, heliconia and lianas. Under the British colonial administration much of St Lucia's rain forest was targeted for timber harvesting. In many ways the independent St Lucian government has proved a far more effective environmental force, and while only about 10% of the island remains covered in rain forest, most of it has now been set aside as nature reserve. The largest indigenous trees in the rain forest are the gommier, a towering gum tree, and the chatagnier, a huge buttress-trunked tree.  Island fauna includes the St Lucia parrot, St Lucian oriole, purple-throated Carib hummingbird, bats, lizards, iguana, tree frogs, introduced mongoose, the rabbitlike agouti and several snake species, including the venomous fer-de-lance and the boa constrictor. It's illegal to damage, collect, buy or sell any type of coral on St Lucia and nothing should be removed from any of the island's many marine reserves.  In January, the average daily high temperature in Castries is 81 F (27 C), while the low averages 68 F (20 C). In July, the average daily high is 85 F (29 C), while the low averages 72 F (22 C). Rainfall is much heavier in the mountains. In Castries, measurable rain falls an average of 11 days a month from January to March, the driest months. The rainiest months, June to December, have an average of 18 days of rain.  
caribbean_saint_lucia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of the USA and Canada can enter St Lucia with proof of citizenship and a photo ID. French citizens can enter with a national identity card. Citizens of the UK, Australia and most other countries must be in possession of a valid passport. For all foreign visitors, stays of over 28 days generally require a visa and an onward or roundtrip ticket or proof of sufficient funds.Health risks: Bilharzia (schistosomiasis) and the fer-de-lance snake (a poisonous pit viper)Time: GMT/UTC minus four hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: ImperialTelephoning: From North America, dial 1 + 758 + the seven-digit local number. From elsewhere, dial your country's international direct-dialing prefix + 1 + 758 + the seven-digit local number. When to Go  Temperature is never an issue in St Lucia, making it a year-round destination for beach lovers. The average daily high is always within spitting distance of a balmy 80 F (27 C). The driest months are January to March, the rainiest June to December.     Events   Carnival takes place on the two days before Ash Wednesday, usually some time in February or March. It's celebrated with calypso music, costumed parades and band competitions. The biggest musical event of the year is the four-day St Lucian Jazz Festival held in mid-May. It often features international stars such as Herbie Hancock, Chaka Khan and Chuck Mangione. The Atlantic Rally for Cruisers, one of the largest transatlantic yacht races, ends at Rodney Bay Marina in December. About 150 boats manage to reach St Lucia from the starting line in the Canary Islands.    
caribbean_saint_lucia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Sulphur Springs is a barren terrain pocked with pools of boiling mud and steaming vents. The vents release great quantities of sulphuric gases, which are responsible for the yellow mineral deposits blanketing the area. The putrid smell, similar to rotten eggs, is hydrogen sulphide. Visitors used to walk up close to the vents and peer directly into the mud ponds until a local guide leading a group of German tourists stepped through the soft earth and plunged waist-deep into boiling mud. He lived to tell the tale, but everything is now viewed from the safety of overlooks. Despite the fact that this area is promoted as a 'drive-in volcano,' those expecting to peer down into a volcanic crater will be disappointed. The crater walls eroded away eons ago, and now the volcanic activity is along the side of a hill.  
caribbean_saint_martin_activities.html:  Activities  Although lying motionless in worship to the sun - regularly fortified by rum cocktails - is one very attractive holidaying option, St Martin offers a surfeit of more energetic activities. There's swimming at a myriad of gorgeous beaches, from busy clothing-optional Orient Beach and secluded Long Beach to swimming-snorkelling beaches such as Baie Rouge and the islets off the northeast coast.  Serious divers spend their time on more southerly islands such as St Lucia and St Vincent & the Grenadines, but everyone else should find some decent local diving across the border at Dutch Sint Maarten's Proselyte Reef. If you prefer a snorkel mask to an oxygen tank you'll find Baie Rouge and the islands of Green Cay and let Pinel the perfect spots for snorkelling. For some of the Eastern Caribbean's best windsurfing point your sail at Orient Bay and the north end of Baie de I'Embouchure.  If you don't want to get wet, try hiking around the island; the most popular route winds up to Pic Paradis, St Martin's highest point. Golf is also on offer for landlubbers, but you'll need to travel across to Mullet Beach in Sint Maarten - well worth the trip if you like the idea of teeing off among palm trees and the deep-blue water of the Caribbean. If you really want to live out the beach fantasy, saddle up for some horseriding along Orient Beach, Baie Lucas or Anse Marcel.  
caribbean_saint_martin_attractions.html:  Attractions  St Martin is less developed than Dutch Sint Maarten, and this is reflected in its capital, the prettily named Marigot. Like its Dutch counterpart, it's a duty-free paradise, chock-full of chic perfume, jewellery and fashion shops, but fortunately has fewer of the cruise ship daytrippers who flood St Philipsburg. Even so, the town is starting to lose some of its historic West Indian buildings to modern structures and car parks geared to the tourist trade.  The town boasts two commercial centres. One, around the harbourfront, has a public market selling food and souvenirs, and is where boats to St Barts and Anguilla dock. The other centre encompasses the Port La Royale Marina, which is surrounded by a cluster of restaurants and boutiques that spill out onto bustling Rue du General de Gaulle. Although at first glance Marigot, with all its boutiques and cafes, seems tres French, it also has a rich Caribbean side that becomes more apparent the further away from the harbour you go.  Aside from shopping and fine French food, Marigot has a couple of key tourist attractions. Fort Louis (also called Fort de Marigot) was built in 1789 to protect Marigot's warehouses against the British. Today it consists of little more than some partially intact stone walls and a couple of cannons, but its hilltop locale offers fine views of Marigot and Simpson Bay. You can find the other main attraction, St Martin Archaeological Museum, on the road to Sandy Ground. The nicely presented museum focuses on the Arawak Period, with shell amulets, bone artefacts, arrow points and pottery pieces illustrating the culture of the island's early Amerindian inhabitants. There are also displays on the town's more recent history.  Marigot is so small you can easily stagger from boat to bar to bed without losing your way. Places to eat can be found either at the marina or in downtown Marigot. Port La Royale Marina, at the southern end of town, is lined with fiercely competitive restaurants offering everything from pizza to seafood and nouvelle cuisine. Downtown at the harbourfront public market you'll find a mix of bars, lolos (sidewalk barbecues) and French restaurants. There's also a waterfront produce market and a modern supermarket on the north side of town. Marigot itself has only a few accommodation places and they lie in the centre of town and just south of the marina.  
caribbean_saint_martin_environment.html:  Environment  The islands of the Eastern Caribbean trace a graceful arc from just off Puerto Rico down to almost the northeastern tip of Venezuala. St Martin sits second from the top of the arc, just to the west of Anguilla and within easy distance of Saba, Statia and St Barts.  St Martin occupies the northern half of its island home, while the Netherlands' Sint Maarten (same name, Dutch spelling) makes up the remaining southern section. This curious arrangement gives the island the honour of being the smallest area of land to be shared by two countries. Legend has it that the land was divided by having a Dutchman and Frenchman stand back to back at one end of the island and then walk in opposite directions around the coastline. The boundary line was supposedly established at the end of the day where they finally met. The Frenchman (refreshing himself with, appropriately enough, French wine) apparently walked much faster than the Dutchman (who quaffed his homeland's more potent gin). Consequently, the French portion of the island ended up being the larger one, although Sint Maarten is said to have received the better land.  In somewhat of a contradiction in terms, St Martin is largely green, but dry. Its topography encompasses bays, coves and coastal flats pocketed with salt ponds. The interior is hilly, with the island's highest point Pic Paradise rising up a cool 424m (1390ft). The west side of the island is dominated by Simpson Bay Lagoon, one of the largest landlocked bodies of water in the Caribbean.  St Martin is a bird-spotter's paradise - make sure you pack your binoculars. Herons, egrets, stilts, pelicans, laughing gulls and other shorebirds are plentiful in the island's brackish ponds. Frigatebirds can be spotted along the coastline, hummingbirds and bright yellow-bellied bananquits are common in gardens, and there are colourful woodland birds in the hills. St Martin is also a lizard lounge in the truest sense - look out for the scaly-skinned reptiles sunning themselves on walkways and other warm areas.  Lying almost exactly halfway between the equator and the tropic of Cancer, the entire Eastern Caribbean has near-equable temperatures year round. North-lying St Martin is thus hot and humid most of the time, but tradewinds blowing from the northeast temper the humidity, especially from January to April. Temperatures in the first half of the year usually hang around a balmy 28 C (83 F). It is driest between February and April, with most rain falling between August and November. The hurricane season for the region is June to November - the same as for the USA - with most activity occuring in August and September. Despite some billion-dollar hurricane damage in the recent past, on average only five hurricanes a year blow through the Eastern Caribbean, and severe ones hit even less frequently.  
caribbean_saint_martin_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: If arriving at Juliana Airport (where most flights to the island land) in Sint Maarten: US & Canadian citizens can stay up to three months. Others need a valid passport. If entering on the French side: EU citizens need an official identity card, valid passport or French carte de sejour (visitor card); US & Canadian nationals can stay up to two weeks (maximum three months, on request) without a passport if they have the same documentation required for the Dutch side. Citizens of most other countries need both a valid passport and a visa for France.Health risks: Sunburn, infections, diarrhoea, intestinal parasitesTime: GMT/UTC-4Electricity: 220V (50Hz)Weights & measurements: Metric When to Go  St Martin, along with the rest of the Eastern Caribbean, is the land of perpetual summer, and there is really no time when you can't comfortably laze around on the beach. There are a bunch of factors that might sway you towards one season or another, however. 'Snow birds' escaping cold European and North American winters make mid-December to mid-April the busiest season. If you don't mind a few crowds and paying a premium for just about everything, this is a great time to visit St Martin.  A cheaper and less crowded proposition is to travel in the low season (summer) - mid-April to mid-December. Tradewinds aren't so prevalent at this time though, so while your pockets might be heavier and the beaches emptier, you may find yourself a little hotter and sweatier. Summer is also the hurricane season, although the odds of encountering one are not much higher than they would be along the east coast of the USA.  As always, the shoulder season offers a good compromise, with November and early December a pleasant time to visit. Many hotels will have taken a late-summer break to spruce up, so their rooms will be at their pre-season finest, the crowds will be just beginning to show and the prices will still be agreeably low.     Events  The French pre-Lenten Carnival, although not as large as Dutch Sint Maarten's, is held with gusto and ceremony. Taking place in the five days before Ash Wednesday in Feb/March, the festivities feature the crowning of a Carnival Queen, costume parades, dancing and music. Naturally, July's Bastille Day is celebrated with typical Gallic fervour, and features a parade, sporting events and fireworks. November's Concordia Day, named 'Sint Maarten Day' by the more proprietary Dutch, marks the amicable coexistence of the two countries, but the sombre ceremony has less appeal to travellers than Carnival. Come March, the annual Heineken Regatta sees a multitude of boats out on the water, while in June fishers fall hook, line and sinker for the Marlin Open de St Martin invitational tournament.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day March/April - Good Friday March/April - Easter Sunday March/April - Easter Monday 1 May - Labor Day 40th day after Easter - Ascension Thursday 8th Monday after Easter - Pentecost Monday 14 July - Bastille Day 15 August - Assumption Day 11 November - Concordia Day 25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to Saint MartinTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_saint_martin_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Leave the world behind and take a drive to the hamlet of Colombier. This short, pleasant side trip offers a glimpse of a rural lifestyle that has long since disappeared elsewhere on the island. The scenery along the way is bucolic, with stone fences, big mango trees, an old coconut-palm plantation and hillside pastures with grazing cattle. The road to Colombier begins just north of the turn-off to Friar's Bay.  
caribbean_saint_vincent_and_the_grenadines_activities.html:  Activities  There are exceptional white-sand beaches on virtually all of the Grenadines and some tan and black-sand beaches on St Vincent. Apart from sunbathing or building sand castles, the islands offer first-rate diving and snorkeling. The waters offer excellent visibility and coral reefs. Divers will find colorful sponges, soft corals, great stands of elkhorn coral, branching gorgonian and black corals, and a few sunken wrecks. There's a range of dives for any level of experience.  Owia Bay, in the northeastern corner of St Vincent, has good tidepools and a popular swimming hole. Lower Bay, at the southern end of Admiralty Bay on Bequia, has some of the island's best swimming and snorkeling. Canouan, midway in the Grenadine chain, has beautiful beaches and great reefs for snorkeling. Unimpeded tradewinds make the Grenadines great for windsurfing; try Bequia's sandy Friendship Bay.  There are many good hikes on St Vincent, including the Vermont Nature Trails and the more challenging trek up the La Soufriere volcano, which passes through banana estates and rainforest and, weather permitting, up to the rim for a view of the crater.  
caribbean_saint_vincent_and_the_grenadines_attractions.html:  Attractions  Kingstown is best appreciated for its West Indian feel rather than for any grand attractions. It's a good place to relax and stroll the cobblestone streets. The town gets its unique atmosphere from the produce vendors along Bay and Bedford Streets, the crowds at the fish market and rum shops, and its stone-block colonial buildings.  Kingstown is known for its churches. The 1820s St Mary's Cathedral of the Assumption (Catholic) has an eclectic mix of Romanesque arches and columns, Gothic spires and Moorish ornamentation. Other notable churches include the Georgian-style St George's Cathedral and the Kingstown Methodist Church.  
caribbean_saint_vincent_and_the_grenadines_environment.html:  Environment  St Vincent, the northernmost island, is the country's commercial and political center, accounting for 90% of both the land area and population. The volcanic island is lush and green, its deep valleys cultivated with bananas, coconuts and arrowroot. The northern third of the island is dominated by a mountainous interior peaking at La Soufrie, a 4000ft (1200m) active volcano. Nearly year-round, the sharp peaks of northern St Vincent are shrouded by clouds formed by cool southwesterly tradewinds blowing moisture in from the Atlantic. Little of this rain gets past the mountains, keeping the southern two-thirds of the island much drier than the north. The Grenadines range from rocky volcanic headlands to tiny cays that barely break the surface of the water. The largest, Bequia, is only 7 sq miles (18 sq km); the smallest, the Tobago Cays, are a few acres each. Many are dry and scrub-covered, and few have any fresh water other than rainfall.  Most of the interior of St Vincent is tropical rainforest. The lowlands are thick with coconut trees and banana estates. The Mesopotamia Valley, northeast of Kingstown, has some of the island's most fertile farmland and luxuriant landscapes.  The national bird is the endangered St Vincent parrot, a multicolored Amazon parrot bird about 18in (45cm) long that lives in St Vincent's rainforests, as do numerous other tropical birds. The forest also provides a habitat for opossum (locally called manicou) and agouti, a short-haired rabbit-like rodent. St Vincent's three snake species, all harmless, include the Congo snake, which coils itself around tree branches.  
caribbean_saint_vincent_and_the_grenadines_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are not required. Citizens of the USA, Canada and the UK can visit with proof of citizenship in the form of a birth certificate or voter's registration card, accompanied by an official photo ID. Citizens of other countries must have a valid passport. A return or onward ticket is required of all visitors.Health risks: Sunburn, diarrhea and intestinal parasitesTime: GMT/UTC minus four hoursElectricity: 220-240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Imperial When to Go  The temperature on balmy St Vincent hardly changes. The average daily high varies about 1 F from January to July. Rainfall is a different matter. July is the wettest month, when there's measurable rainfall an average of 26 days, while April, the driest month, averages six days of rain. January to May are the driest months and thus the best time to go, but they're also the peak tourist season. Generally, the Grenadines tend to be drier than St Vincent.     Events  St Vincent's carnival, called Vincy Mas, is the main cultural event of the year. Usually held during the first two weeks of July, it features a 12-day run of calypso and steel band music, colorful costume parades and lots of dancing. Most of the action is centered in Kingstown. On Bequia, there's a major regatta over the Easter weekend. A Christmas celebration called Nine Mornings starts on 15 December and features parades through the streets of Kingstown, bicycle races, string band serenades and carolling. May Day is also Fisherman's Day on St Vincent, which comes at the end of a week's worth of contests when the island's fishermen catch as many fish and mend as many nets as they can.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 22 January - St Vincent & the Grenadines Day Easter Holidays - Good Friday, Easter Monday First Monday in May - Labour Day Eighth Monday after Easter - Whit Monday Second Monday in July - Caricom Day Mid-July - Carnival Tuesday First Monday in August - August Monday 27 October - Independence Day 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to Saint Vincent & the GrenadinesTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_saint_vincent_and_the_grenadines_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Most people who've heard of the Grenadines can probably tell you that Mick Jagger and Princess Margaret are neighbors on Mustique - though practically everyone's a neighbor on an island that's only 5 miles (8km) long. Most of the 800 permanent residents work directly or indirectly for those who vacation on the island, which has been privately owned since 1958. Since the 1960s it's become a holiday haven for the rich and famous and, despite its typically dry and hilly Grenadine landscape, it's been successfully planted with coconut palms and citrus trees. The island is managed by the Mustique Company, which runs a village of sorts on Britannia Bay on the western coast that consists of a general store and a handful of boutiques. There's good swimming and snorkeling at Britannia Bay, and the Mustique Company can arrange horseback riding and diving.  
caribbean_san_juan_activities.html:  Activities  The best beaches in San Juan are at Isla Verde and Condado, both backed by a fortress wall of high rises. If you want to get out of the city (though not away from the crowds) try picturesque Luquillo, 30km (19mi) east of the capital, which is backed by nothing more intrusive than palm trees. Water babies can also try windsurfing in the sheltered waters of Condado Lagoon or deep-sea fishing for marlin, tuna and sailfish in the waters off San Juan. The more sedate sport of kite flying is popular on the grassy, breezy slopes surrounding El Morro, said to be the world's best kite site.  
caribbean_san_juan_attractions.html:  Attractions  The walled city of Old San Juan is a seven-square-block historic precinct of narrow cobblestoned streets, pastel-colored colonial architecture and shady plazas. It's located at the western end of San Juan Island, surrounded by sea on three sides and laden with the atmosphere of a bygone era.  The monumental 16th-century fortress of El Morro at the western end of the district has had as much to do with preserving Old San Juan as the recent restoration efforts of government bodies. It repelled raids by Caribs, pirates, the Dutch and English sea-dog Sir Francis Drake. It rises nearly 45m (150ft) above the sea, has walls 4.5m (15ft) thick and contains a labyrinth of ramparts, tunnels and dungeons. In these peaceful days, El Morro is also known as the world's best kite-flying site.  Its twin, El Castillo San Crist bal, lies a mile to the east. Construction of San Crist bal began after 1598, when the Earl of Cumberland's English forces took El Morro by siege, demonstrating the need for land defences. This was the only time El Morro fell and even then it was only a matter of months before the invaders succumbed to disease. Both forts are studded by Puerto Rico's trademark garitas (sentry boxes) jutting over their outer walls.  In the lee of these two enormous structures lie the hundreds of treasured buildings of Old San Juan, including early-16th-century gems such as the Iglesia de San Jose and the Casa Blanca, which was built for Juan Ponce de Le n though he probably never lived there. Today the house is a museum furnished with Spanish colonial-era furniture set in beautiful grounds overlooking the bay. The original Catedral de San Juan has blossomed over the centuries from a rude thatched-roof affair to a soaring Gothic structure. La Fortaleza, down by San Juan Gate, was originally designed as a fort, but it has mostly been used as dwellings for the rich and powerful.  The best way to experience Old San Juan is to tramp through its streets, sit in its squares and poke your nose in every building and courtyard open to the public. There are heaps of boutiques, hotels and cafes in the area and a corresponding number of museums dedicated to everything and everyone from the Ta nos to cello fellow Pablo Casals. In the latter, there's even a spooky cast of the maestro's hands.  
caribbean_san_juan_facts.html:  When to Go  San Juan is balmy year round with daily highs between 75-85 F (24-30 C). The peak tourist season is between December and April, but this has more to do with the climate in North America than anything else. During these months the city is swamped by visitors, prices are highest and accommodations can be hard to find. The best time to avoid the crowds is the low season between May and November. This is also hurricane season and, as the terrible destruction wrought by Georges in September 1998 shows, it's worth keeping an eye on weather reports if you're heading to San Juan at this time of year. Usually, hurricane season means that the weather is a fraction hotter, wetter and gustier than at other times, not that debris routinely flies through the streets. Note that temperatures in the mountains are significantly cooler than the coast, so if you intend to travel inland bring a sweater for the evenings regardless of when you visit.     Events  San Juan's Festival of St John the Baptist in late June wonderfully fuses pagan and Catholic iconography and Indian, African and Spanish traditions. There are solemn religious aspects and plenty of feasting, music, dancing and colorful costumed processions. The highlight of the parade is a communal luck-enhancing midnight walk backwards into the sea. The three weeks of Las Navidades, beginning on 15 December, are the peak period of socializing and religious observation, though many of the celebrations take place at family homes. The climax comes on 6 January, when hordes of children advance on La Fortaleza to receive presents from the governor.  Old San Juan takes to the streets during the Saint Sebastian Festival in the third week of January. The Casals Festival honors the famous Puerto Rican cellist in June. It attracts classical musicians of international repute and is one of the Caribbean's major cultural events. In Bayam n, July's Festival del Chicarr n celebrates the smoked ham delicacy. The International Old Lacers Convention in August gives you a chance to get wrapped up in traditional Puerto Rican mundillo lace. Sanjuaneros get baseball fever when the season starts in November, reaching its climax in February.    
caribbean_san_juan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  You needn't genuflect at the Bacardi Rum Factory, on the western shore of the Bahia de San Juan, but it always makes the slightly cheesy tour more interesting if you sample some of the product before you begin. The tour includes a trolley tour of the distillery and bottling plant, a modest museum and a free rum cocktail. You can stock up for your next daiquiri party at the gift shop. Take a ferry from the pier in Old San Juan across the bay to Cata o, where there are shuttle vans to the distillery.  For those who like their distilleries as aged as their rum, there's the nearby Barrilito Rum Distillery, which occupies a 200-year-old mansion. A little farther south are the Caparra ruins, the remains of the island's first settlement. You can view artifacts from the ruins at the immodestly named Museum of the Conquest and Colonization of Puerto Rico.  
caribbean_sint_eustatius_activities.html:  Activities  No one visits Statia for its beaches, which are few in number and undistinguished. The island's best beach for swimming is the usually calm Oranje Beach in Lower Town. Zeelandia Bay on the east coast, which has rough surf and undertows, is not recommended for swimming but nonetheless rates as Statia's second beach. Oranje Beach, at the north end of Lower Town, has gray sands and generally calm waters. Modest as it may be, it's the island's best all-round beach and a popular swimming spot for Statian families.  Statia has a couple dozen dive sites, the majority of which are coral formations on old lava flows. There are also a few wrecks of colonial trading ships, although the remains are basically piles of ballast stones as the ships themselves have disintegrated. To protect the island's historical remains from souvenir hunters, all divers are required to be accompanied by a guide. The Stingray wreck (1768), a few minutes from Lower Town in 15m (50ft) of water, is near a ledge with a rich concentration of marine life, including stingrays, spotted eels and octopuses.  Anchor Reef, at the southwest side of the island, is a popular reef dive with a wide variety of sponges, corals and sea fans. It also has many ledges and crevices harboring lobsters, sea turtles and numerous species of fish. For a deep dive, Doobie Crack, a large cleft in a reef at the northwest side of the island, has black-tip sharks and schools of large fish.  Inexpensive snorkeling tours of some of the shallower reefs are available from the dive shops.  Statia has good hiking, and its most popular trail leads to the rim of the Quill, an extinct volcano. The trail begins in Oranjestad and takes about 50 minutes to reach the edge of the crater. From there you can continue in either direction along the rim. The trail to the southeast takes about 45 minutes and ends atop the 600m (1970ft) Mazinga, Statia's highest point. The shorter Panorama Track to the northeast offers spectacular views and only takes about 15 minutes. A third option is the steep track leading down into the crater, where there's a thick rainforest of tall trees, some with huge buttressed trunks. This track takes about 30 minutes each way.  
caribbean_sint_eustatius_attractions.html:  Attractions  Oranjestad, the island's capital and its only town, is a pleasant place with a fine sense of history. Located along the waterfront, Lower Town was the location of the original port town and still has some ruins from the colonial era, as well as the island's best beach and its harbor. Upper Town is Oranjestad's main commercial and residential area.  Right in the center of town, Fort Oranje is an intact 17th century fort complete with cannons, triple bastions and a cobblestone courtyard. It's perched on the cliffside directly above Lower Town and offers a broad view of the waterfront below. The Sint Eustatius Museum, operated by the Sint Eustatius Historical Foundation, gives visitors a glimpse of upper-class colonial life on Statia and is one of the region's finest historical museums. It occupies the Simon Doncker House, a restored 18th-century Dutch merchant's home with collections of nautical artifacts, china and hand-blown bottles. The basement, formerly a wine cellar, houses the museum's pre-Columbian collection.  The Honen Dalim, an abandoned synagogue that dates from 1739, is the second oldest in the western hemisphere. About half a kilometer east of the synagogue ruins is a Jewish cemetery with gravestones dating from 1742 to 1843. The thick stone walls of the old Dutch Reformed Church, built in 1755, remain perfectly intact, but the roof collapsed during a 1792 hurricane and the building has been open to the heavens ever since. You can climb the steep steps of the church tower for a good view of the surrounding area.  Although high seas and hurricanes have taken their toll on Lower Town's historic waterfront, the remains of the old foundations from some of the 18th-century warehouses that once lined the coast can still be seen jutting into the water along the shore. Submerged sections of the old seawall that once protected the harborfront can be explored by donning a mask and snorkel.  
caribbean_sint_eustatius_environment.html:  Environment  Shaped a bit like a gourd, Sint Eustatius is only 8km (5mi) long and 3km (2mi) wide. The island is 60km (37mi) south of Sint Maarten and 27km (17mi) southeast of Saba. Mt Mazinga, better known as 'the Quill' (whose name is derived from the Dutch word for volcano), is an extinct volcano rising 600m (1970ft) above the southern half of the island. Cliffs drop straight to the sea along much of the shoreline and the island has precious few beaches. At the northern side of Statia there are a few low mountains, while the island's central plain contains the airport and town. Statia has few roads and is easy to get around. Oranjestad, the island's sole town, is just south of the airport.  Most of the island is dry, with scrubby vegetation, although oleander, bougainvillea, hibiscus and chain of love flowers add a splash of color here and there. The greatest variety of flora grows on the slopes of the Quill, which collects enough cloud cover for its central crater to harbor a rainforest of ferns, elephant ears, bromeliads, bananas and tall trees. The island also has 18 varieties of orchids, all but three of which are found on the Quill. There are 25 resident species of birds on Statia, including white-tailed tropicbirds nesting on the cliffs along the beach north of Lower Town. There are also harmless racer snakes, iguanas, lizards and tree frogs - along with the ubiquitous goats, cows and donkeys.  In January the average daily high temperature is 29 C (85 F); it averages a few degrees warmer in July and rarely dips below 22 C (72 F). Moderate rainfall is fairly evenly dispersed throughout the year.  
caribbean_sint_eustatius_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US and Canadian citizens don't need visas or passports, only proof of citizenship.Health risks: SunburnTime: Atlantic Standard Time (GMT/UTC minus 4 hours)Electricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & measures: MetricTelephone: 599-3 When to Go  Statia is comfortably warm all year, though prices are lower during the summer months (December to February), when most potential visitors (ie, North Americans) tend to keep to their own latitudes.     Events  The Statia Carnival, which is held during mid-July and culminates on a Monday, is the island's biggest festival. Music, jump-ups, competitions and local food are the highlights. Fort Oranje is the site of ceremonies held on Statia-America Day, 16 November, which commemorates the date in 1776 when Statia became the first foreign land to salute the US flag.   Public Holidays1 January - New Year's DayEaster Holidays - Good Friday, Easter Monday30 April - Queen's Day1 May - Labor Day40th day after Easter - Ascension ThursdayAugust - Carnival MondayNovember - Statia/America Day25 December - Christmas Day26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to Sint EustatiusTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_sint_eustatius_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Zeelandia, 3km northeast of Oranjestad, takes its name from Statia's first Dutch settlers, who were from Zeeland province in the Netherlands. It's a nice spot for a stroll, though the dark-sand beach at Zeelandia Bay collects a fair share of flotsam and is not a good beach for swimming. You can find private niches by walking south along the beach towards the cliffs.  If you're up for a longer walk, a track from the main road leads north to the semi-secluded Venus Bay. There's no beach, but it makes for a nice hike, taking about 45 minutes each way.  
caribbean_sint_maarten_activities.html:  Activities  Sint Maarten has beautiful white-sand beaches, ranging from crowded resort strands to long secluded sweeps. Most of the best and least developed beaches are on the French side. Dawn Beach has good snorkeling and swimming. Snorkelers can expect to find waving sea fans, soft corals and small tropical fish. When the swell picks up, Mullet Bay can be good for bodyboarding.  The most popular diving is at Proselyte Reef, a few kilometers south of Philipsburg, where in 1802 the British frigate HMS Proselyte sank in 15m (50ft) of water. There are 10 other dive sites in that area, including coral reefs with caverns.  The island has good bicycling. You can cruise around Simpson Bay Lagoon, or cross to the French side and pump up to the top of 425m (1395ft) Pic Paradis.  
caribbean_sint_maarten_attractions.html:  Attractions  Philipsburg, Sint Maarten's main town, is centered on a long, narrow stretch of land that separates Great Salt Pond from Great Bay. There are some older buildings mixed among the new, but overall the town is far more commercial than quaint. Most of the action is along Frontstreet, the bayfront road, which is lined with boutiques, jewelry shops, restaurants, casinos and duty-free shops selling everything from Danish porcelain to Japanese cameras and electronics. History buffs can visit the Sint Maarten Museum, which has displays on island history with Arawak pottery shards, plantation-era artifacts, period photos and a few items from the HMS Proselyte, the frigate that sank off Fort Amsterdam in 1801. There's also an interesting exhibit on the damage caused by 1995's Hurricane Luis.   Wathey Square, overlooking Great Bay on the south, is the town center of sorts. It boasts a tourist information booth, a wharf where cruiseship tenders dock and an old courthouse that dates from 1793. On cruise ship days, vendors on the square sell drinking coconuts and souvenirs; more street vendors, selling T-shirts and wood carvings, can be found at the north side of the courthouse.  In 1631 the Dutch built their first Caribbean fort, Fort Amsterdam, on the peninsula separating Great Bay and Little Bay. Invading Spaniards expanded it and added a small church. Despite its historic significance little remains of the fort other than crumbling walls and a few rusting cannons. It does, however, offer a nice view across the bay to Philipsburg.  The tiny Sint Maarten Zoo & Botanical Garden has some 35 reptile, bird and mammal species. It's located on the north side of Great Salt Pond.  
caribbean_sint_maarten_environment.html:  Environment  Sint Maarten is located near the northern end of the Lesser Antilles, 325km (200mi) east of San Juan, Puerto Rico. Its nearest neighbors are Anguilla, 22km (14mi) north, and St Barthelemy (St Barts), 25km (15mi) southeast. Occupying the lower half of a triangular island that it shares with the French St Martin (a sub-prefecture of Guadeloupe), Sint Maarten is just under 15km (9mi) at its widest point and about 5km (3mi) from north to south. The shoreline is indented with bays and coves and the coastal flats are pocketed with salt ponds. The interior is hilly. The west side of the country is more water than land, dominated by the expansive Simpson Bay Lagoon, one of the largest landlocked bodies of water in the Caribbean.  The terrain is largely green but dry, with more palms, hibiscus and cacti than ferns or forests, although there are a few thickly vegetated areas in the interior. Herons, egrets, stilts, pelicans, laughing gulls and other shorebirds are plentiful in the island's brackish ponds. Frigatebirds can be spotted along the coastline, hummingbirds and bright yellow-bellied bananaquits are common in gardens and there are colorful woodland birds in the hills. Lizards are abundant and can be seen scurrying about on walkways and in other sunny areas.  The average daily high temperature is 28 C (83 F) in January, 30 C (86 F) in July. The average low temperature rarely dips below 22 C (72 F).  
caribbean_sint_maarten_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US and Canadian citizens don't need visas or passports, only proof of citizenship.Health risks: SunburnTime: Atlantic Standard Time (GMT/UTC minus 4 hours)Electricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & measures: MetricTelephone: 599-5 When to Go  St Maarten is comfortably warm all year; room rates are cheaper during the low season (December to February).     Events  Sint Maarten's Carnival usually begins the second week after Easter and lasts for two weeks, with steel band competitions, jump-ups, calypso concerts, beauty contests and costume parades. Sint Maarten Day on 11 November commemorates the peaceful 1817 reconciliation of the Dutch with their French neighbors.  The Heineken Regatta, held the first weekend in March, features competitions for racing yachts, large sailboats and small multihulls.   Public Holidays1 January - New Year's DayEaster (early April) - Good Friday, Easter Monday30 April - Queen's Day1 May - Labor DayEarly May - day after the last Carnival parade40th day after Easter - Ascension Thursday11 November - Sint Maarten Day25 December - Christmas Day26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to Sint MaartenTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
caribbean_sint_maarten_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Dutch-French border slices straight across Oyster Pond, a largely rural area with a number of small condominiums and other vacation rentals. A marina and most of the accommodations fall on the French side. Oyster Pond isn't actually a pond but a protected bay whose shape resembles an oyster. For a good vantage of Oyster Pond, there's a short path leading up the cactus-studded hill on the northeast side of the bay.  The area's finest beach, Dawn Beach is on the Dutch side and features white sand and clear turquoise waters. Though it's a bit silted, swimming and snorkeling are good when the seas are calm.  
caribbean_trinidad_and_tobago_activities.html:  Activities  Tobago has some fine strands of beach on a par with many of the Caribbean's better known destinations. There are white-sand beaches and crystal-clear water to swim in at Store Bay and Pigeon Point. There's a coral reef at Buccoo Bay, not far from Pigeon Point, and a concentration of dive sites around Little Tobago, Goat Island and St Giles Island, three uninhabited islets off Tobago's northern coast. There's also good snorkeling to be found at Pirate's Bay on the northern side of Charlotteville and at Angel Reef off Goat Island.  Trinidad is not known for its beaches, but the island's singular favorite is Maracas Bay, a scenic spot north of Port of Spain. Trinidad boasts several worthwhile hikes, including a fine hiking trail to Blue Basin Waterfall in the Northern Range. Attacks on hikers sometimes occur, so a safe way to get into the wilderness is to join one of the monthly hikes led by the Trinidad & Tobago Field Naturalists Club or one of the frequent walks at the Asa Wright Nature Center. An alternative is to hike in the Tobago Forest Reserve, which has a number of safer trailheads leading into the rainforest. It's not uncommon to see parrots, hummingbirds, motmots, coricos, woodpeckers and trogons on these routes.  To see and hear the birds on Trinidad, check out the Caroni Bird Sanctuary, Pointe-a-Pierre Wildfowl Trust, the Asa Wright Nature Center or the bird sanctuary on Little Tobago, the islet close to Speyside.  
caribbean_trinidad_and_tobago_attractions.html:  Attractions  The islands' capital, Port of Spain is a bustling metropolitan hub of approximately 300,000 people. It's not the country's tourist center by any means, since its attractions are limited to a few 19th-century colonial buildings and its hotels are geared toward business travelers rather than tourists. The pulse of the city is Independence Square - not really a square at all, but rather two long streets bordering a narrow pedestrian strip. At Independence Square you can pick up a taxi and find travel agents, banks and cheap eats.  The city is crowned by Queen's Park Savannah, once part of a sugar plantation and now a public park with a race track. Largely an expansive grassy field, the park itself is not particularly interesting but there are some sights along its perimeter. In the park's northwest corner there's a small rock garden with a lily pond and benches. Along its west side is the Magnificent Seven, a line of seven fancy colonial buildings, including Stollmeyer's Castle, built to resemble a Scottish castle complete with turrets.  
caribbean_trinidad_and_tobago_environment.html:  Environment  Located at the end of a sweep of islands on the southeastern boundary of the Caribbean, Trinidad and Tobago are just barely off the coast of Venezuela. Trinidad's land area is 4828 sq km (1883 sq mi) and Tobago's is 300 sq km (117 sq mi). Geographically, boot-shaped Trinidad was clearly once part of the South American mainland. Over time a channel developed, separating Trinidad from Venezuela. The connection to South America is readily visible in Trinidad's lofty Northern Range, a continuation of the Andes, and in its abundant oil and gas reserves, which are concentrated on the southwestern side of the island facing oil-rich Venezuela.  The Northern Range spreads east to west, forming a scenic backdrop to Port of Spain. In the center of the range, above Arima, lies the 941m (3086ft) Cerro del Aripo, the country's highest peak. Much of the rest of the island is given to plains, undulating hills and mangrove swamps. Trinidad's numerous rivers include the Ortoire River, which runs 50km (31mi) on its way to the southeast coast, and the 40km (25mi) Caroni River, which empties into the Caroni Swamp.  The island of Tobago, 20km (12mi) northeast of Trinidad, has a central mountain range that reaches 620m (2034ft) at its highest point. Deep fertile valleys run from the ridge down towards the coast, which is indented with bays and sandy beaches.   Because of its proximity to the South American continent, Trinidad and Tobago has a wide variety of plant and animal life. There are more than 400 species of birds, 600 species of butterflies, 50 kinds of reptiles and 100 types of mammals, including red howler monkeys, anteaters, agouti and armadillos. Tobago has fewer species than Trinidad but parrots and other bright tropical birds are nonetheless abundant in the mountainous interior. You can commonly spot pelicans, osprey and frigatebirds along Tobago's coast. Both islands have luxuriant rainforests.  Because of Trinidad's southerly location, temperatures are equable year round. The average daily high temperature in Port of Spain is 31 C (88 F) in both January and July, while the low averages 22 C (72 F) in July and is only one degree cooler in January. February to May are the driest months, with a relative humidity of 74%. June to August, the wettest months, average 260mm (10in) of rain and 23 rainy days each month. Trinidad and Tobago are outside the hurricane belt.  
caribbean_trinidad_and_tobago_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of the USA, Canada, and most European Commonwealth countries do not require visas. Visas are required by citizens of some countries, including Australia, New Zealand, India and Sri Lanka. In most countries, visas are obtained through the British Embassy.Health risks: Dengue fever; a vaccination certificate for yellow fever is required for travelers who have been in any country in the past six months where yellow fever is endemic (eg many South American countries)Time: GMT/UTC minus 4 hoursElectricity: 110V and 220V, 60 HzWeights & measures: MetricTelephoning: From North America, dial 1 + 868 + the seven-digit local number. From elsewhere, dial your country's international direct dialing prefix + 1 + 868 + the seven-digit local number. When to Go  Carnival, two days before Ash Wednesday in either February or March, is the best reason to go to Trinidad. However, if you can live without the big party, you'll enjoy steeply discounted hotel prices and cheaper airfares by visiting in the low season from mid-April to mid-December. During this period, the beaches are less crowded, tourist areas are more relaxed and last-minute bookings are not a problem.     Events  Trinidad's Carnival is the king of all Caribbean Carnivals and many Trinidadians prepare for it with obsessive devotion. From New Year's Day onwards, activities start swinging into full gear, culminating on Carnival Monday, two days before Ash Wednesday, which usually falls sometime in February or March. It all kicks off with a pre-dawn procession into the heart of the city as tens of thousands of revelers from around the world are invited to become part of the swell, and by nightfall everyone is dancing, drinking and carousing in the streets. On Carnival Tuesday, there are competitions for Band of the Year. Most of the larger events take place at the Queen's Park Savannah in the center of Port of Spain.  The Pan Jazz Festival, held in November, brings together pan drummers and jazz musicians for three days of concerts in Trinidad. There are also numerous East Indian festivals that are based on the lunar calendar; the biggest is Divali, which usually falls in November.  Tobago's Heritage Festival consists of two weeks of traditional-style festivities that begin in late July. For something quintessentially local, there's the big goat race in Tobago's Buccoo village on the Monday and Tuesday after Easter.    
caribbean_trinidad_and_tobago_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Trinidad's east coast is wild and rural, a mix of lonely beaches, rough Atlantic waters, mangrove swamps and coconut plantations. You may not encounter another traveler along the entire coast, but you will encounter free-roaming cows, water buffaloes, vultures, egrets and herons. The main east coast beach, Manzanilla Beach, has brown sand, palm trees and white beach morning glory.  
caribbean_turks_and_caicos_activities.html:  Activities  There are lots of places in the Turks and Caicos Islands to sunbake and swim. Grand Turk has fine beaches at Cockburn Town, Waterloo and White Sands. Salt Cay has excellent sands, as does Providenciales at Grace Bay and Chalk Sound. The islands also offer some of the Caribbean's best diving and snorkeling, especially along the 'Wall,' which is the face of a 7000ft (2100m) trench separating Grand Turk and Salt Cay from East and South Caicos. South Caicos has great wall diving, and you're sure to see plenty of pelagics, including eagle rays, Atlantic rays and black-tip sharks. Salt Cay's best dive sites include Wanda Lust, known for its plankton-rich waters that attract whales and eagle rays; Kelly's Folly, a rolling coral garden; and HMS Endymion, a never-salvaged 18th-century British warship bristling with cannons that was discovered lodged in a coral canyon.  The islands have unsurpassed whale watching. You can spot humpbacks off South Caicos in January and February, and the Mouchoit Bank, south of Grand Turk, has the only known breeding grounds for North Atlantic humpbacks. The islands' unofficial and much-cherished mascot is JoJo, a 7ft (2m) male bottlenosed dolphin who's been swimming with tourists off the northern shores of Provo's Grace Bay beach and Pine Cay since leaving his pod in 1983.  Birdwatchers can find ospreys, sparrow hawks, barn owls, pelicans and frigate birds throughout the islands. There are colonies of shorebirds on many of the uninhabited cays. Flamingoes can be found on West, North and South Caicos; the Cuban heron can be spotted on the latter. Other activities include windsurfing at Grand Turk's North Creek, and horseback riding, parasailing and skydiving on Provo.  
caribbean_turks_and_caicos_attractions.html:  Attractions  Grand Turk is a treeless, brush-covered, bean-shaped dot of an isle, just 6.5 miles (10.5km) long and 1.5 miles (2.4km) wide. The island is dominated in the middle by several salinas, or salt ponds, often odoriferous reminders that 'white gold' was the island's most important industry until its collapse in 1962. There are nice beaches at Cockburn Town, Waterloo and White Sands Beach.  Cockburn Town, the sole settlement on Grand Turk, has been the administrative and political capital of the archipelago for more than 400 years. Today it also claims to be the business and financial center, yet it remains as sleepy a Caribbean capital as they come. There are only two main streets, smothered in sand, trod by an occasional donkey and lined with pastel-painted colonial buildings. Downtown also has many Bermuda-style wooden houses erected by the wealthy Bermudian expatriate society that once dominated the salt trade.  The waterfront has the best sights in the capital, including historic government buildings surrounding a small plaza where a Columbus Monument claims cheekily that the explorer landed here in 1492. Nearby, four large cannons point to sea, where a nearby coral reef is protected within the Columbus Landfall National Park. It's worth nipping into the General Post Office to admire the Philatelic Bureau's beautiful stamps, for which the Turks & Caicos are justly famous. The Turks and Caicos National Museum displays eclectic miscellany such as exhumed shell tools, beads, stamps, locks, and greenstone celts. Its central exhibit is the remains of the Molasses Reef, the oldest authenticated shipwreck in the Americas.  
caribbean_turks_and_caicos_environment.html:  Environment  Much of the Turks and Caicos islands, most notably the southern halves of North, Middle and East Caicos, are comparatively lush landscapes watered by creeks, as well as sand flats, lagoons and marshy wetlands. Most of the sandy beaches are found on the north and west shores, facing the open ocean. Like the Bahamian archipelago, the two island groups each sit atop a flat underwater mountain surrounded by its own barrier reef.  The Turks and Caicos' climate is similar to that of the southern Bahamas, though slightly warmer and drier. Temperatures average 77 F (25 C) in winter and rise to an average of 90 F (32 C) in summer. Average annual rainfall is 21in (53cm). Most of the rain falls in summer.  
caribbean_turks_and_caicos_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: No visas are required for citizens of the USA, Canada, UK and the EU. Most other nationalities require a visa. US citizens need proof of citizenship (a valid passport, voter's registration card or birth certificate) with photo ID. Everyone else, including UK citizens, needs a valid passport. Proof of onward transportation is required upon entryHealth risks: Sunburn, prickly heat, dehydration, heat exhaustion, heat stroke, fungal infection, diarrhea, giardiasis, tetanus, jellyfishTime: GMT/UTC minus 4 hoursElectricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & measures: ImperialTelephoning: From North America, dial 1 + 649 + the seven-digit local number. From elsewhere, dial your country's international direct dialing prefix + 1 + 649 + the seven-digit local number. When to Go  The only time to consider not going to the Turks and Caicos is the sweltering four months of August to November, when the daily average high is 32 C (90 F); when the trade winds die it nudges over 38 C (100 F). During the Northern Hemisphere's winter, spring and summer (December to July), the average daily high is milder. The peak tourist season is between winter and spring (mid-December to mid-April). Probably the best time to visit is between mid-April and July.     Events  Grand Turk hosts a two-day Summerjam every June, featuring live bands and beauty contests. June brings the Queen's Official Birthday Celebrations to Grand Turk, which features the police marching band whipping up jingoistic fervor. In July, Grand Turk hosts a Rake 'n' Scrape Festival, with bands playing traditional island music; and Provo puts on its week-long Summer Festival, the biggest bash of all, with regattas, parades, partying and a Miss Turks & Caicos Beauty Pageant. Grand Turk's Carnival is a week-long festival in August with reggae and (of course) dancing.    
caribbean_turks_and_caicos_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This smelly place near the northeastern tip of Provo claims to be 'the world's only conch farm.' It strives to protect the Caribbean queen conch ( Strombus gigas) from extinction and also raises the mollusks commercially for export and local use. The farm was the brainchild of Chuck Hesse, an environmentalist who after years of research can now produce a consumable mollusk in 28 months, from egg to adult conch. Chuck reckons he has 2 million conchs in the ponds and an additional 1 million offshore in 80 acres of 'pasture' fenced to keep predators at bay. Annual production is over 750,000 conchs a year, with 10,000 harvested weekly. They're worth US$1 apiece! You can learn how conchs are grown from egg to adults on a tour.  
caribbean_us_virgin_islands_activities.html:  Activities  St Thomas has some of the best white-sand beaches in the Caribbean, notably at popular Magens Bay, an oversized scallop of sand and palm trees that shows up on lists of the top ten beaches of the world. If you're looking for enough space to throw a frisbee around, consider quieter Limetree Beach on the southern side of the island. On St Croix, try Shoy Beach near Christiansted or catch a boat to Buck Island, a couple of miles off the northeastern coast. On St John, beautiful Cruz Bay winds its way around to Honeymoon Beach, a favorite with photographers looking for an exotic backdrop, and Jumbie Bay, where being nude is quite acceptable.  There's good diving and snorkeling at Buck Island Reef off St Croix's northeastern coast. This protected nature reserve is surrounded by a coral reef, part of which is marked by an underwater snorkeling trail. There are dozens of other dive options off St Croix, including the Salt River Dropoff on the central northern coast. If you're staying on St Thomas, try Coki Point or the waters around the Cow and Calf, two rocks poking out of Jersey Bay. Snuba, a curious hybrid of snorkeling and diving, is the new thing on St John: the 'snuber' is attached to a raft of air through a long breathing tube - if you haven't got over having your umbilical cord slashed this may be just the therapy you need.  There's only one real surfing spot in the islands and that's Hull Bay, just west of Magens Bay on St Thomas. Windsurfers have a wider choice with particularly good winds along St John's northern coast and on the eastern coast of St Thomas. As marinas on the adjacent British Virgin Islands have become more crowded, sailing has been getting a decent go around the US Virgin Islands. If you want to cruise the islands, there are boats for hire at marinas at Red Hook on St Thomas, Christiansted on St Croix, and Cruz Bay on St John. Deep sea fishing enthusiasts can tackle up for some hefty marlin, tuna and kingfish.  The Virgin Islands National Park on St John has dozens of steep, rocky trails offering good hiking, including some that pass old sugar plantations and cross three different peaks. Bordeaux Mountain, at 1277ft (385m), is the highest. Various stables offer horseback riding through the islands' forests.  
caribbean_us_virgin_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  This spiky lizard-shaped island has a rambunctious past peppered with the exploits of men named after their facial hair. You'd think the stomping ground of Blackbeard and the mythical Bluebeard would be the last place to turn into the quintessential American beach suburb, but a fine port is a fine port whether you're unloading booty, slaves or cruise ship passengers. St Thomas is overly developed and fixated on shopping but it's also strikingly pretty, thanks to a spine of hills whose forested ridges form headlands separating bays and coves filled with turquoise-blue water. There are more than forty beaches fringing the island, and snorkeling and dive spots galore.  Charlotte Amalie (named after the wife of King Christian V in 1691), the capital of the Virgin Islands, has long been a busy port. Today you'd call the town 'lively and bustling' if you were feeling polite, 'congested and harassing' if you'd just had 40 spruikers tell you what lovely watches they have. True enough, the center of town is swamped by cruise ship passengers and duty-free shops, but it does wear its Danish heritage with style. The neat, pastel-painted warehouses, the ochre-colored fort and the dual Danish-English street signs combine to keep it clear that this ain't no mall. The colorful melange of tropical foliage, red-roofed houses and the rich blue bay are best seen from Blackbeard's Castle, atop Government Hill.  The town's top ranking historic attraction is Fort Christian, a modest red affair that looks barely fit to defend a string of sausages. The building dates to the 1670s when it served as a combined defense post, government house, church and community hall. When the threat of invasion dissipated, the fort became a jail and, since 1987, a museum with displays on the region's natural heritage (including medicinal plants and birdlife) and art.  Part of the island's inglorious past is still standing in Market Square at the other end of Charlotte Amalie. Today the covered plaza is the local food market but it was once the Caribbean's busiest trading post for slaves. Nearby, the Beracha V'Shalom V'Gimilath Chasidim Synagogue was built by Sephardic Jews fleeing the Spanish Inquisition; it's now the oldest continually operating synagogue under the US flag.  The island's other attractions include the Virgin Islands panorama at Drake's Seat, a high point in the center of the island from which Sir Francis himself is said to have watched naval engagements. Any self-respecting beach connoisseur should stake out a patch of Magens Bay on the central north coast. Those craving peace and privacy are better off heading to the nearby uninhabited islets of Hassel Island (not hassling at all) and Great St James.   Mountain Top, at the peak of St Peter Mountain is higher than Drake's Seat though the surrounding forest means the view is better from lower down. Nevertheless, this is a tranquil spot in between tour buses when you can get a seat at the pleasant bar behind the carpark. Locals claim the banana daiquiri was invented here in an idle moment - boy, does this watering hole have a lot to answer for.  
caribbean_us_virgin_islands_environment.html:  Environment  The US Virgin Islands play connect-the-dots 1100 miles (1770km) southeast of Miami in the balmy waters where the Atlantic Ocean meets the Caribbean Sea. Most of the 50 or so islands, cays and jutting rocks that make up the territory are clustered around St Thomas (30 sq miles/245 sq km) and St John (20 sq miles/50 sq km), which lap it up 40 miles (65km) east of Puerto Rico and just southwest of the British Virgin Islands. Sts Thomas and John are a cozy conch-shell call apart, separated only by the 2-mile-wide (3km) Pillsbury Sound. Their distant big bro, St Croix, is plopped firmly in the Caribbean Sea 45 miles (72km) south and measures a whopping 80 sq miles (205 sq km).  The Virgin Islands' landscape includes dense subtropical forests (such as in the hills of St John), arid stretches dominated by succulents and coastal mangrove swamps. Indigenous trees include kapok, whose silky seedpod fiber was used as stuffing in pillows and lifejackets; calabash and the teylerpalm, whose delicate fronds make good brooms and were once used to construct fish traps. Madagascan flame trees brighten the vista along with bougainvillea, jasmine and frangipani.  The most common animals are rats, mongoose, donkeys and lizards. Mongoose were introduced to eat up the pesky rats but given that rats snoop by night and that mongoose are strict 9 to 5-ers, the plan failed. Unfortunately mongoose have developed a taste for the eggs laid by endangered leatherback, hawksbill and green turtles. The cheekiest bird of the islands is the bananaquit, a yellow-breasted sugar addict that thinks nothing of swooping your breakfast table for a hypoglycemic hit. Other birds include hummingbirds, herons, egrets and hawks.  Temperature is never an issue when planning a trip to the US Virgin Islands, since daily highs year round are between 70-80 F (22-27 C), trade winds keep humidity low and Caribbean currents keep waters warm. Rainfall is unlikely to dampen a visit, with the wettest months, September through November, averaging only about five days of rain each. The islands are prone to hurricanes, which can hit anytime between July and October, so keep an eye on weather reports if you're visiting during these months.  
caribbean_us_virgin_islands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: No visas are required for citizens of the US and Canada, though you'll have to prove citizenship by way of a birth certificate, voter's registration card or valid passport. Most other nationalities don't need a visa either, but will need a passport for a stay of less than 90 days. Proof of onward transportation is required upon entry.Health risks: Sunburn, dengue fever (carried by mosquitoesTime:Atlantic Standard Time (GMT/UTC minus 3 hours)Electricity:110-120V, 60HzWeights & measures:ImperialTelephone: From North America, dial 1 + 340 + the seven-digit local number. Elsewhere, dial your country's international direct dialing prefix + 1 + 340 + the seven-digit local number. When to Go  The peak tourist season is December to May, but this has more to do with the weather in North America and Europe than it does with the reliably balmy Virgin Islands' weather. It's therefore best to visit outside this period, when you can expect room rates to be two thirds of those charged during the busier months. An additional draw is that the calmer weather between April and August tends to keep the waters clearer for diving.     Events  The US Virgin Islands' cultural hodgepodge means that St Patrick's Day is celebrated with as much verve as a blues festival. No matter what is being celebrated, the costumes are going to be colorful, there's bound to be a calypso beat in there somewhere and it's hardly a party unless someone's on stilts.   Carnival on St Thomas is a crazy week full of masquerades, drumming, dancing, feasting and mocko jumbies (costumed stiltwalkers). Unlike other Carnivals in the Caribbean, which precede Lent, St Thomas' takes place after Easter, usually in late April. St John extends US Independence Day on 4 July into a week's worth of fireworks and vigorous celebration right after its own Carnival in the last week of June.  St Croix's two-week Crucian Christmas Festival from Christmas through early January offers yet more feasting, drinking and parading. And if one Christmas isn't enough, get back for Christmas in July when Santa dances on the streets of Charlotte Amalie with the tallest elves you've ever seen. Bull and Bread Day celebrates the efforts of sugar plantation slaves to attain better conditions. It's held every 1 November on St Croix. Transfer Day (31 March) commemorates the 1917 handover of the islands from Denmark to the US.  The St Thomas Yacht Club's International Rolex Cup Regatta cuts up the waters every April. On a not quite so grand scale are the Hermit Crab Races in Christiansted on St Croix every Monday afternoon. Also worth looking out for are 'scrambles,' tournaments ranging from golf to cake baking where the emphasis is on participation rather than excellence.   Public Holidays1 January - New Year's DayThird Monday in January - Martin Luther King Jr DayThird Monday in February - Presidents' DayLate March or April - EasterLast Monday in May - Memorial Day3 July - Emancipation Day4 July - Independence DayFirst Monday in September - Labor DaySecond Monday in October - Columbus Day, Virgin Islands Friendship Day1 November - Liberty Day (St Croix)11 November - Veterans' DayFourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving25 December - Christmas Day26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to US Virgin IslandsTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
central_america_belize_activities.html:  Activities  The Cayes and the Belize Reef are a paradise for water sports enthusiasts, offering all the swimming, snorkeling, scuba diving, sailing, windsurfing and fishing anyone could ever wish for. If that's still not enough, travelers can canoe on the Macal, Mopan and Belize Rivers around San Ignacio and tube through caves along the Chiquibul River. The best hiking trails are in Mountain Pine Ridge Forest Reserve and the Cockscomb Basin Wildlife Sanctuary. Bird-watchers should check out the rivers, swamps and lagoons of the Crooked Tree Wildlife Sanctuary, midway between Belize City and Orange Walk Town, which attract flocks of migrating birds between November and May.  
central_america_belize_attractions.html:  Attractions  This ramshackle, colorful Caribbean city was Belize's former capital and is the country's only settlement of any size. The tropical storms which periodically razed the town in the 19th and early 20th centuries still arrive to do damage to its aging wooden buildings, but they also flush out the open drainage canals, redolent with pollution, which crisscross the city. When there's no storm, Belize City bustles, steams and swelters. Few people come to Belize City for a holiday or to see the sights but it's the transport and commercial hub of the country, so travelers are likely to spend some time here. Some travelers report that the city can be quite dangerous, particularly after dark.  The city's commercial center is divided from the more genteel northern neighborhoods by Haulover Creek, a branch of the Belize River. The creek is spanned by the Swing Bridge. Interesting spots south of the bridge include Battlefield Park, which is always busy with vendors, loungers and con men; St John's Cathedral (1847), the oldest and most important Anglican church in Central America; and the Bliss Institute, the city's cultural center. North of the bridge is the wood-framed Paslow Building, housing the city's main post office. Heading south from there is the Image Factory Art Foundation, showcasing work by Belizean artists, and before the tip of the peninsula is the Belize Audubon Society, a good source of info on national parks and wildlife reserves throughout the country.  North Front St, on the north bank of Haulover Creek, has a good selection of budget accommodations. The luxury hotels are located at the end of the north shore peninsula. The main commercial streets are Albert, Regent, King and Orange Sts.  
central_america_belize_environment.html:  Environment  Belize is a lilliputian country located in the southeast of the Yucat n Peninsula, on the Caribbean coast of the Central American isthmus. It shares borders with Mexico to the north and Guatemala to the west. The country consists predominantly of tropical lowland and swampy plains, though the Maya Mountains in the west rise to almost 1000m (3280ft). Thirty kilometers (19mi) offshore is the world's second largest barrier reef, home to a broad range of marine life.  Half of the country is covered by dense (but rapidly disappearing) jungle, the rest is farmland, scrub and swamp. The tropical forests provide habitats for a wide range of animals, including jaguar, puma, ocelot, armadillo, tapir and crocodile. The country also harbors keel-billed toucan, an abundance of macaws and parrots, and heron and snowy egret.  Belize is hot and humid year round, but respite from the weather can be found in the cooler mountains or from the tropical breezes which waft over the cayes. Rainfall is a whopping 4m (13ft) a year, most of it falling between June and November.  
central_america_belize_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of the US, European Union and Commonwealth countries do not require visas if they have a passport and return ticket. All other nationalities require a visa. British embassies frequently handle Belize's diplomatic affairs.Health risks: Cholera, dengue fever, hepatitis, malaria, typhoidTime: GMT/UTC minus 6 hoursElectricity: 110V, 60 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to travel is the dry season from November to May, but this is also the busy winter tourist season, when prices rise and hotels fill up. It's cheaper to travel in summer (July to November), but keep in mind that this is hurricane season.     Events  The big national holidays are dictated by the Roman Catholic calendar, but other celebrations include the wonderfully titled Baron Bliss Day (March 9), which honors a philanthropic British nobleman who fell in love with Belize and upon his death willed the bulk of his fortune in trust to the people of Belize. Belize National Day (September 10) commemorates the Battle of St George's Caye; celebrations continue until Independence Day (September 21). More festivities occur on Colombus Day (October 12) and Gar funa Settlement Day (November 19). The latter commemorates the arrival of the Garinagus (Black Caribs) in dugout canoes from Honduras in 1823. Dangriga is the place to celebrate this festival: the small town explodes in a frenzy of dancing and drinking.    
central_america_belize_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Perched at the southern tip of a long, narrow, sandy peninsula in Southern Belize, this laid-back beach town is worth every bump and grind of the dirt roads you need to travel to get here. All commerce and activity used to be carried out by boat, thus the village's 'main street' is just a narrow concrete footpath less than 1m (3ft) wide. The main attractions are the beaches and water sports, but there's also fishing, bird and manatee watching, overnight camping on remote cayes, and excursions to jungle rivers and the Cockscomb Basin Wildlife Sanctuary. The latter is home to jaguars, pumas, ocelots, margays, agoutis, anteaters, armadillos, boa constictors and birds galore.  
central_america_costa_rica_activities.html:  Activities  Costa Rica's national parks are a smorgasbord of outdoor activities for both the Gen-X adrenaline junkie and the more sedate stop-and-smell-the-roses type rambler. Apart from the opportunity to do some prime-time hiking through magnificent rainforests, some parks offer the chance of fun rappelling. Monteverde is the best place for zip-lining (zipping across the top of the jungle canopy on flying foxes), while horse riding is available just about everywhere. If you're into bird watching you should head straight for La Selva, Parque Nacional Tapant , Parque Nacional Palo Verde, Refugio Nacional de Vida Silvestre Ca o Negro or the area around Tortuguero. Turtle watchers should visit Parque Nacional Tortuguero, where they can visit nesting sites and watch the turtles lay their eggs.  Pavones on the Pacific Coast reportedly has some of the best surfing in Central America while windsurfers should check out the artificial Laguna de Arenal, near the spectacular volcano. There are snorkeling and diving possibilities at the Reserva Biologica Isla del Cano, 20km (12mi) west of Bah a Drake, off the northern part of the Pen nsula de Nicoya and in the Parque Nacional Isla del Coco - an isolated island 500km (310mi) southwest of Costa Rica in the eastern Pacific.  Golfito is a center for deep-sea fishing, and there are plenty of opportunities to charter boats for several days or more. Parsimina, a small village at the mouth of the R o Parsimina, 50km (31mi) northwest of Lim n, has several excellent fishing lodges and good offshore reef fishing. R o Reventazon, in central Costa Rica, is one of the most exciting and scenic rivers in Costa Rica and a favorite with river rafters and kayakers. R o Pacure, the next major river valley east, is perhaps even more scenic and offers the best white-water rafting in the country through spectacular canyons clothed in virgin rain forest.  
central_america_costa_rica_attractions.html:  Attractions  The cosmopolitan capital of Costa Rica is the transportation hub of the country, so most visitors spend at least a few days in the city. It has a more North American feel to it than many Latin American capitals, with department stores, shopping malls and fast-food chains. However, it also has several excellent museums, some great restaurants, colorful markets and a fine climate.  The best of the museums are the Museo Nacional, which has displays of Costa Rican archaeology, colonial furniture, costumes and religious art; the Museo del Oro Precolombino, which houses a dazzling collection of pre-Columbian gold pieces; and the Museo de Jade, with the world's largest collection of American jade sculptures. The most impressive city building is the Teatro Nacional, built in the 1890s. It hosts plays, operas, ballets and performances by the National Symphony Orchestra. The best market is Mercado Central, which bustles rather than buzzes, but has a range of goods from live turkeys to leatherwork, and some of the cheapest meals in town.  Most of the cheaper hotels and eateries are west of Calle Central, between Avenidas 1 and 2.  
central_america_costa_rica_environment.html:  Environment  Costa Rica is bordered to the north by Nicaragua and to the east by Panama. It has both a Caribbean and a Pacific coast. A series of volcanic mountain chains runs from the Nicaraguan border in the northwest to the Panamanian border in the southeast, splitting the country in two. In the center of these ranges is a high-altitude plain, with coastal lowlands on either side. Over half the population lives on this plain, which has fertile volcanic soils. The Caribbean coast is 212km (131mi) long and is characterized by mangroves, swamps and sandy beaches. The Pacific coast is much more rugged and rocky, and, thanks to a number of gulfs and peninsulas, is a tortuous 1016km (630mi) long.  The country's biodiversity attracts nature lovers from all over the world. The primary attraction for many visitors is the 850 recorded bird species, which include the resplendent quetzal, indigo-capped hummingbirds, macaws and toucans. Costa Rica's tropical forests have over 1400 tree species and provide a variety of habitats for the country's fauna including four types of monkey, sloths, armadillos, jaguars and tapirs. There are also a number of dazzling butterflies. National parks cover almost 12% of the country, and forest reserves and Indian reservations boost the protected land area to 27%.  Costa Rica is a tropical country and experiences only two seasons: wet and dry. The dry season is generally between late December and April, and the wet season lasts the rest of the year. The Caribbean coast tends to be wet all year. Temperatures vary little between seasons; the main influence on temperature is altitude. San Jose at 1150m (3772ft) has a climate that the locals refer to as 'Eternal Spring': lows average 15 C (60 F); highs average 26 C (79 F). The coasts are much hotter, with the Caribbean averaging 21 C (70 F) at night and over 30 C (86 F) during the day; the Pacific is a few degrees warmer still. The humidity at low altitudes can be oppressive.  
central_america_costa_rica_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visa requirements for Costa Rica change rapidly so check with your consulate before leaving. Currently citizens of the USA, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Israel, Japan, Panama, Romania, South Korea, Uruguay, the UK, France and most other Western European countries do not need a visa for a 90-day stay. Citizens of Australia, Ireland, Iceland, India, Mexico, New Zealand, Russia, South Africa, Vatican City and most of Eastern Europe and Latin America can stay 30 days without a visa. If you do need a visa, it will cost approximately US$20 from a Costa Rican consulate.Health risks: Dengue fever, malaria, low risk of cholera and hepatitisTime: GMT/UTC minus 6 hoursElectricity: 110V, 60 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  As far as climate goes, the late-December to mid-April dry season is the most pleasant. But of course, this is when everyone else goes to Costa Rica, so prices are up and hotels are full. Although some roads are impassable in the wet season, it's still worthwhile to visit at this time, and things are much quieter. April, May and mid-October to mid-December should give you the best of both worlds.     Events  The country just about closes down during Easter week, and the week between Christmas and New Year's Day tends to be an unofficial holiday, especially in San Jose. Various towns celebrate their own saints' days and other significant dates. San Jose's day ( Saint Joseph's Day) is March 19, while Virgin of Los Angeles Day (the patron saint of Costa Rica) is August 2. Juan Santamaria's Day on April 11 celebrates the national hero who helped see off William Walker in 1856, and Columbus Day on October 12, as elsewhere in the Americas, is a national holiday.    
central_america_costa_rica_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Caribbean has more cultural diversity than the Pacific coast. Half of this coastal area is protected by national parks and wildlife refuges, which has slowed development and the building of access roads, making it an especially verdant place to get away from it all. The main city is Puerto Lim n, which has a tropical park teeming with flowers and sloths. Parque Nacional Tortuguero is the most important Caribbean breeding ground of the green sea turtle and has plenty of birds, monkeys and lizards. The Creole beach paradise of Cahuita has a nearby national park with attractive beaches, coral reef and coastal rain forest. Bribri culture can be experienced in the surfing mecca of Puerto Viejo de Talamanca. Handicrafts, reggae, home stays and cultural tours make Puerto Viejo an especially interesting destination.  
central_america_el_salvador_activities.html:  Activities  There are a lot of different ways to volunteer in El Salvador, and many organizations exist to help. Centro Internacional de Solidaridad (CIS) runs language schools in San Salvador that take English teachers as volunteers. CIS can also arrange volunteer work with any number of political and cultural groups in the country. Green Arrow's Conservation Connection Placement Program, based in Costa Rica, places volunteers in work positions throughout Central America. CISPES (Committee for Solidarity with the People of El Salvador) is a long-standing activist organization affiliated with the FMLN that places volunteers in programs dealing mostly with workers' rights.  Also good for the heart, El Salvador's volcanic terrain provides plenty of opportunities for hiking. You can trek around the rim of San Salvador's Boquer n volcano or follow a trail down into the crater itself. Other nifty hiking spots include the Cerro Verde national park, Montecristo cloud forest and the areas around La Palma and Perqu n.  You can catch excellent waves surfing off the beaches of El Sunzal, La Libertad and points west along La Costa del B lsamo. The islands in the Golfo de Fonseca offer a good excuse to go boating, and you may well encounter dolphins and sea turtles along the gulf's black sand beaches. Rougher waters await down the Lempa, Paz and Torola Rivers, all good for rafting and kayaking. The country's many Turicentros are popular recreational and camping parks usually located at beaches, lakes or natural springs.  
central_america_el_salvador_attractions.html:  Attractions  El Salvador's capital and largest city lies in a valley at the foot of the large San Salvador volcano. It's not the prettiest place in the world since the valley is a pollution trap which perfectly captures the city's horrendous traffic effluvium. The rural migration and the declining economy during the war expanded the urban poor, and unemployment is still around 50%. Shanty towns abound and the streets are lined with people selling everything from bruised fruit to Velcro gun holsters just to get by.  San Salvador was founded at its present site in 1546 and has been the capital of El Salvador since 1839. Despite its long history, there are no old buildings to see since the accident-prone city has been destroyed many times - by earthquakes in 1854 and 1873, by the most recent eruption of the San Salvador volcano in 1917 and by floods in 1934. An earthquake in 1986 caused considerable damage, and reconstruction is still going on.  The city's central landmark is the domed Catedral Metropolitana, where Archbishop Oscar Romero is buried. The cathedral faces onto the principal plaza, the Plaza Barrios. Nearby, the red-velvet opulence of the Teatro Nacional dates from 1917. Its sensuous ceiling mural is continued into the nearby Teatro Cafe. The city has two markets, the Mercado Ex-Cuartel for handicrafts, hand-woven textiles and ceramics, and the Mercado Central for daily needs. The Museo Nacional Dav d J Guzm n holds most of the country's notable archaeological finds, and the Jard n Bot nico La Laguna is an attractive garden built on what was once a swamp at the bottom of a volcanic crater.  Accommodation is concentrated near the eastern and western bus stations, but these neighborhoods are not safe, especially at night. You can find better service and safety in a few places near the center and a whole slew of guesthouses on the city's western edge. The Zona Rosa is the ritziest and most exclusive restaurant and nightlife district.  
central_america_el_salvador_environment.html:  Environment  El Salvador is a tiny country, about the size of the US state of Massachusetts, located on the Pacific coast of Central America. It's bordered by Guatemala to the west, Honduras to the north and east, and the Pacific Ocean to the south.  For the most part, El Salvador is lush, green and surrounded by cloud-misted hills. More than 25 extinct volcanoes dot the country, the largest being San Salvador, San Vicente, Santa Ana and San Miguel. Less than 6% of the country remains forested since the land is intensively cultivated; coffee predominates in the highlands, sugar in the lowlands and cotton on the coastal plains. However, with the highest level of environmental damage in the Americas, El Salvador runs the risk of losing its beauty, especially since it's the only country in Latin America without environmental protection laws. Many of the country's river systems suffer from pollution, and some fear that at the current rate of destruction the country will run out of drinking water in less than 15 years.  Although industrial development and hotel construction are major threats to the environment, the most visible problem is trash. A circle of soaring vultures usually indicates where a new load has been dumped by the side of the road. Other fauna that has survived this onslaught includes quetzals, toucans, monkeys, white-tailed deer and zillions of butterflies. There are, however, 90 endangered species in El Salvador, including marine turtles and armadillos.  A wet and a dry season dominate El Salvador's climate. During the wet season (May to October), there's generally a downpour every evening. Between November and April the country is dry and dusty. Daytime temperatures vary little, reaching around 30 C (86 F) in November and 34 C (93 F) in March and April. The coastal lowlands are much hotter than the rest of the country. San Salvador is 680m (2230ft) above sea level, so it has a moderate climate compared to other parts of the country, but it's still pretty sweaty.  
central_america_el_salvador_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US and Canadian citizens do not require a visa but must buy a tourist card upon arrival. The card is valid for 90 days. Citizens of Australia and New Zealand need a visa; citizens of most Western European countries do not require a visa or tourist card.Health risks: Cholera, hepatitis, malaria, rabies, typhoidTime: GMT/UTC minus 6 hoursElectricity: 110V, 60 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The dry season (November-April) is the easiest time to visit: roads are in better condition, you won't get drenched every evening and more cultural festivals take place. The biggest holiday periods are from Christmas through mid-January; during Semana Santa, a week-long festival before Easter; and during the first week of August when San Salvador holds its annual festival. Many services shut down during these periods and hotel prices can rise up to 50%. In the rainy season (May-October), prices are lower, beaches less crowded and the evenings slightly cooler after the rainstorms.     Events  The festival day of El Salvador del Mundo, patron saint of El Salvador, is on 6 August. Celebrations in San Salvador begin several days in advance and include a fair and big parade. Other celebrations are held during Semana Santa (the week preceding Easter) and on 12 December, the day of the Virgen de Guadalupe. Each town also has an annual festival to honor its patron saint.    
central_america_el_salvador_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Cerro Verde national park has two incredible views: The first is the still steaming and impressive Volc n Izalco; and the second is of the blue volcanic crater lake Lago de Coatepeque on the eastern slope of the Volc n de Santa Ana, the highest volcano in El Salvador. Volc n Izalco 200 years ago was nothing but a hole in the earth from which columns of black sulfuric smoke would rise. Then a cone began to form and within a short time it grew to is present size of 1910m (6265ft). Izalco continued to erupt into this century, sending out smoke, boulders and flames that became such an impressive sight by night or day it earned the reputation as 'the lighthouse of the Pacific.' Though still classified as active, Izalco hasn't been heard from since 1966. A marked path leads to the top, about a 3-hour hike.  Cerro Verde is a 2-hour drive south of Santa Ana and is best reached by bus. If coming from San Salvador, Santa Ana is 63km (39mi) northwest, and a bus trip takes about 90 minutes.  
central_america_guatemala_activities.html:  Activities  Apart from the many activities with a Mayan connection, Guatemala offers great hiking and climbing in the highlands and the volcanoes surrounding Lago de Atitl n and Antigua. Contact your embassy or consulate in Guatemala City for information on the current safety of particular areas before setting out. Keep an eye out for the elusive national bird, the quetzal, when birdwatching around Tikal National Park or Lago de Atitl n. Spanish language courses are a popular feature of Antigua and Quetzaltenango.  
central_america_guatemala_attractions.html:  Attractions  Guatemala City is the largest urban agglomeration in Central America - it's far from a pretty site. It sprawls across a range of flattened, ravine-scored mountains, covering an entire mountain plain and tumbling into the surrounding valleys. With its rickety chicken buses and chaotic marketplaces, the city's Latin character is over the top to the point of cliche. Like all Guatemalan towns, a strict grid system has been imposed on the city's layout: avenidas run north-south; calles run east-west. The huge city has been divided into 15 zones, each with its own version of this grid system.  Few colonial buildings grace the city, and it is visited more for its role as the nation's administrative and transport hub than as a must-see tourist site. In Zona 1, Plaza Mayor is a classic example of the standard Spanish colonial town-planning scheme, and is the city's ceremonial center, with the retail district nearby. It's best visited on a Sunday, when it's thronged with thousands of locals who come to stroll, eat ice cream, smooch on a bench, listen to boom-box salsa music and ignore the hundreds of trinket vendors. The square is lined by the imposing Palacio Nacional, currently being restored to house a national history museum, and the twin-towered Catedral Metropolitana. An earthquake destroyed the original market building adjacent to the square in 1976, and today the hugely chaotic Mercado Central specializes in tourist-oriented crafts.  North of Zona 1 is the shady and restful Parque Minerva, featuring a quirky relief map of the country. Several important museums can be found in Zona 10, including the Museo Popol Vuh, which is a superb private collection of Mayan and Spanish colonial art, and the Museo Ixchel, which displays the rich traditional arts and costumes of Guatemala's highland towns. Zona 13 houses the Museo Nacional de Arqueolog a y Etnolog a, with its prized collection of Mayan artifacts, and the Museo Nacional de Arte Moderno, which has a superb collection of 20th-century Guatemalan art. Several km west of the center lie the extensive ruins of Kaminaljuy, an important Late Pre-classic/Early Classic Maya site. Unfortunately, the ruins have been largely covered by urban expansion.  Most of the city's cheap and middle-range hotels are in Zona 1, while posh hotels are clustered in Zona 10. Zona Viva is the place to go to eat expensively and dance the night away.  
central_america_guatemala_environment.html:  Environment  Guatemala is Central America's westernmost country, bordering Mexico to the north and west, Belize to the northeast and Honduras and El Salvador to the east. Guatemala's volatile topography is a mountainous and forested jumble of volcanoes and jungle. The western highlands are home to over 30 volcanoes, which reach heights of up to 3800m (12,464ft) and cast a red glow at night. The area experiences frequent earthquake activity. The intensively cultivated Pacific coastline is a vast expanse of mostly black-sand beaches, and the tiny Caribbean coastline also lacks beaches but is culturally rich. The vast jungle lowland of El Peten fills the interior, characterized by a mix of banana plantations and soils rich in dinosaur bones.  Guatemala's national bird is the quetzal - a gorgeous creature which is almost extinct, due to deforestation and poachers. Puma, jaguar, ocelot, jaguarundi and margay - and their assorted diet of deer, peccary and tapir - survive, though are seldom seen.  The Pacific coast is tropically sweltering, with temperatures often hovering around 38 C (100 F). The seemingly constant high humidity diminishes a little in the dry season. The highlands are freezing at night, damp and chilly during the rainy season and warm and pleasant during their dry season (October to May), which is somewhat different from the rest of the country's December-to-April parched period. El Peten's climate varies only from hot and humid to hot and dry.  
central_america_guatemala_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visa regulations changed in 1996 and citizens of most countries no longer need either a visa or a tourist card. Depending on the country you come from, stays are limited to 30 or 90 days. Citizens of some countries still need either a visa or a tourist card, so check with the closest Guatemalan embassy for up-to-date information.Health risks: Cholera, dengue fever, malaria, hepatitis, typhoid, dysenteryTime: GMT/UTC minus 6 hoursElectricity: 115V to 125V, 60HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The dry season, from November through May, is the most pleasant time, weather-wise, to be in Guatemala. Along with summer holidays, however, this is also the busiest time. Although the rain may restrict some activities during the wet season, it's still worthwhile planning your trip for this time of year, particularly as you'll be more likely to pick up accommodation bargains. If you're planning to be in the area around Easter, try to be in Guatemala for Semana Santa (Holy Week), the highlight of the country's festival calendar.     Events   Semana Santa (Holy Week - the week before Easter) is Guatemala's biggest festival, featuring processions and celebrations throughout the country - Antigua's fiesta is said to be the best. Rabin Ajau, held throughout the Verapaces, most impressively in Cob n, is a traditional Q'eqchi' (Kekchi) Maya festival which runs from July 21-26. Independence Day is celebrated nationwide in September. November features All Saints' Day, and Chichicastenango commemorates Santo Tom s from December 13-21.    
central_america_guatemala_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Situated on Guatemala's Pacific Slope, this is an important site for anyone interested in Mayan art and culture. The sugar cane fields are dotted with great stone heads and scenes carved in relief. The artifacts are the remnants of the Pipils, a non-Mayan Indian culture linked to that of the Nahuatl-speaking peoples of central Mexico. The mystery is how these people got here and why these ritual objects? There are three main archaeological sites in the surrounding sugar cane fincas (ranches or plantations). Finca Bilbao consists of several ceremonial sites containing stone sculptures, many of which are hidden among the cane. Hilltop Finca El Ba l has the additional fascination of being a still-active place of worship, while Finca Las Ilusiones contains hundreds of objects which have been collected from the fields over the centuries.  
central_america_honduras_activities.html:  Activities  There are great snorkeling, diving and swimming around the Bay and Hog Islands, and nice beaches around Tela and Trujillo. For the best walks, try Parque Nacional Celaque, 45km (28mi) southeast of Santa Rosa de Cop n. It contains the country's highest peak, a lush cloud forest, the headwaters of 10 rivers and a majestic waterfall. There are also vertical cliffs for expert mountain climbers. Parque Nacional Pico Bonito, a few kilometers south of La Ceiba, has trails around the fringes of the 500 sq km (195 sq mi) unexplored reserve and a challenging peak for mountaineers.  
central_america_honduras_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital of Honduras is a busy, noisy city nestled into a bowl-shaped valley nearly 1000m (3280ft) above sea level. It has a fresh and pleasant climate, and the surrounding ring of mountains is covered in pine trees. The name Tegucigalpa means 'silver hill' in the local dialect, and it was bestowed when the Spanish founded the city as a mining center in 1578. Fortunately, the locals call the city Tegus for short, saving foreigners the embarrassment of mispronouncing the full name. Tegucigalpa became the capital in 1880 and, in 1938, the nearby settlement of Comayagüela was incorporated into the city.  The focus of the city is the domed 18th-century cathedral, which has a baroque interior full of fine art. Parque Central, in front of the cathedral, is the hub of the city. Interesting buildings include the old university, Antiguo Paraninfo Universitaria, now an art museum; the modern Palacio Legislativo, which is built on stilts; the Casa Presidencial; and the 16th-century Iglesia de San Francisco, the first church built in Tegucigalpa.  The city is divided by the R o Choluteca. On the east side is Tegucigalpa, with the city center and more affluent districts; across the river is Comayagüela, a poorer, dirtier market area with lots of long-distance bus stations and cheap hotels. It is cleaner, safer and more pleasant to stay in Tegucigalpa, although popular wisdom says it's cheaper in Comayagüela. If you do stay in Comayagüela, it's very dangerous to walk through the market area at night. The main area for budget accommodations in Tegucigalpa is a few blocks east of the Parque Central; in Comayagüela, the best cheap hotels are around the El Rey and Aurora bus stations, between 8a and 9a Calles. Most of the good restaurants are on the Tegucigalpa side of the river, but Comayagüela has plenty of cheap Chinese restaurants. In Tegucigalpa, Boulevard Moraz n and Avenida Juan Pablo II are the main nightlife areas.  
central_america_honduras_environment.html:  Environment  Honduras is the knee of Central America, bordered to the south by Nicaragua and El Salvador and to the west by Guatemala. It has a 644km (399mi) long Caribbean coast and a 124km (77mi) pipsqueak of a Pacific coast. The Caribbean Bay Islands and, further northeast, the distant Swan Islands are both part of Honduran territory.  Three-quarters of the country is composed of rugged hills and mountains, ranging from 300 to nearly 2850m (984 to 9348ft) in height. Lowlands are found only along the coasts and in major river valleys. Deforestation is occurring at a rate of 3000 sq km (1170 sq mi) a year, which, if continued, will turn the country into a treeless desert within the next 20 years. However, there are still largely untouched areas, especially in the Mosquitia region. Fauna includes jaguars, armadillos, wild pigs, monkeys and alligators and abundant bird life such as toucans, herons and kingfishers.  The climate in Honduras varies between the mountainous interior and the coastal lowlands and between the Pacific and Caribbean coasts. The interior is much cooler than the humid coast, and temperate Tegucigalpa has maximum temperatures varying between 25 and 30 C (77 and 86 F). The rainy season technically begins in May and lasts until October. This means that the interior and Pacific coast are relatively dry between November and April, but on the Caribbean coast it rains all year. The wettest months on the Caribbean coast are from September/October to January/February. The tourist season on the Caribbean coast is between February and April, during the US winter. This is a good time to visit, but prices will be lower and there will be fewer tourists if you avoid this season.  
central_america_honduras_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of most Western European countries, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the UK and the US can stay 30 days without a visa. Extensions giving a total stay of 90 days are possible.Health risks: Chagas' disease, cholera, dengue fever, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS, malariaTime: GMT/UTC minus 6 hoursElectricity: 110V and 220VWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  May through June are great times to catch several town fairs and celebrations, including a weeklong carnival held in La Ceiba during the third week of May. The coastal lowlands are warm year-round, while the mountainous interior can be cool and rainy, especially between May and October. On the Caribbean coast it rains practically all the time and floods can occur on the north coast, impeding travel.     Events  There are festivities in just about every town to celebrate saint's days. The fair for the Virgen de Suyapa, patron saint of Honduras, is celebrated in Suyapa, 7km (4mi) southeast of Tegucigalpa, during the first two weeks of February. Services and festivities attract pilgrims from all over Central America. Carnaval at La Ceiba is celebrated during the third week of May with parades, costumes and street music. There are other popular fairs in Cop n Ruinas (15 to 20 March), Tela (13 June), Trujillo (24 June), San Pedro Sula (last week in June) and Danl (last weekend in August). The Feria Centroamericana de Tourismo y Artesan a, a Central American international artisans' and tourism fair, is held annually from 6 to 16 December in Tegucigalpa. Another cultural fair is held in Cop n Ruinas from 15 to 21 December.    
central_america_honduras_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This vast, inaccessible region in northeastern Honduras is inhabited by small groups of Miskito, Paya and Sumo Indians. Travelers are attracted by the pristine wilderness and abundant wildlife, including manatees, monkeys, alligators and fine bird life. Infrastructure is nonexistent, so be prepared to rough it, carry in food supplies and eat with local families. Attractions include the magnificent R o Pl tano Nature Reserve and boat trips on the rivers and lagoons.  
central_america_nicaragua_activities.html:  Activities  The Selva Negra (Black Forest) near Matagalpa, the mountains in the north and the islands in Lago de Nicaragua offer great hiking. Among the many spectacular volcanoes of interest for climbers are Volc n Masaya and the two volcanoes on Isla de Ometepe, Madera and Concepci n. Lago de Nicaragua offers fantastic opportunities for fishing, and surfing is popular at Poneloya beach, near Le n, and at Playa Popoyo, near Rivas.  
central_america_nicaragua_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital of Nicaragua is spread across the southern shore of Lago de Managua and is crowded with more than a quarter of Nicaragua's population. It's been racked by natural disasters, including two earthquakes this century, and since the 1972 earthquake the city has had no center. Those returning to Managua after a few years will notice marked changes. An improving economy has produced a construction boom. It will be obvious, however, that the recovering economy has not benefited everyone, as poverty is still widespread.  Several of Managua's attractions stand around the Plaza de la Rep blica, including the lakeside municipal cathedral, which has been reconditioned with help from foreign donors and is now open to the public. Near the cathedral is the recently renovated Palacio Nacional, which has two giant paintings of Augusto Sandino and Carlos Fonseca at the entrance.  The Huellas de Acahualinca museum houses the ancient footprints of people and animals running toward the lake from a volcanic eruption. The Museo de la Revoluci n has interesting historical exhibits with an emphasis on the revolutionary struggle of this century. There are also several lagunas, or volcanic crater lakes, which are popular swimming spots.   Barrio Martha Quezada is a residential district with many simple, cheap guesthouses and places to eat. This is where backpackers tend to congregate. On weekends there's dancing and partying around Plaza 19 de Julio.  
central_america_nicaragua_environment.html:  Environment  Nicaragua is the largest country in Central America. It's bordered to the north by Honduras, to the south by Costa Rica, to the east by the Caribbean Sea and to the west by the Pacific Ocean. The country has three distinct geographic regions: the Pacific lowlands, the north-central mountains and the Caribbean lowlands, also called the Mosquito Coast or Mosquit a. The fertile Pacific lowlands are interrupted by about 40 volcanoes, and dominated by Lago de Nicaragua, which is the largest lake in Central America. The Mosquito Coast is a sparsely populated rainforest area and the outlet for many of the large rivers originating in the central mountains. To date, 17% of the country has been given national-park status.  Lago de Nicaragua supports unusual fish, including the world's only freshwater sharks, as well as a huge variety of bird life. The cloud- and rainforests in the northwest contain abundant wildlife including ocelots, warthogs, pumas, jaguars, sloths and spider monkeys. Avian life in the forests is particularly rich: The cinnamon hummingbird, ruddy woodpecker, stripe-breasted wren, elegant trogon, shining hawk and even the quetzal, the holy bird of the Maya, can all be seen. The jungles on the Caribbean coast contain trees that grow up to almost 200ft (60m) high and are home to boas, anacondas, jaguars, deer and howler monkeys.  Nicaragua's climate varies according to altitude. The Pacific lowlands are always extremely hot, but the air is fresh and the countryside green during the rainy season (May to November); the dry season (December to April) brings winds that send clouds of brown dust across the plains. The Caribbean coast is hot and wet; it can rain heavily even during the brief dry season (March to May). The mountains of the north are much cooler than the lowlands.  Nicaragua was devastated by Hurricane Mitch in November 1998, when more than a year's worth of rain fell in in just seven days. A series of violent earthquakes and volcanic eruptions in the fall of 1999 didn't help the situation much.  
central_america_nicaragua_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of the UK, USA, the Scandinavian countries, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Argentina, Chile, Bolivia and European Union countries do not need visas and are issued a tourist card (US$5) valid for 90 days on arrival. Citizens of Australia, Canada, New Zealand and European countries that do not have reciprocal agreements with Nicaragua will require either a visa or a tourist card allowing a 30-day stay.Health risks: cholera, dengue fever, hepatitis, malaria, rabies, typhoidTime: GMT/UTC minus 6 hoursElectricity: 110V, 60 HzWeights & measures: Metric, but the gallon is used for gasoline (petrol) When to Go  Nicaragua has two distinct seasons, the timing of which varies from coast to coast. The most pleasant time to visit the Pacific or central regions is early in the dry season (December and January), when temperatures are cooler and the foliage is still lush. With the possible exception of the last month of the dry season (usually mid-April to mid-May) when the land is parched and the air full of dust, there really is no bad time to visit.  Nicaraguans spend Semana Santa (Holy Week) at the beach; all available rooms will be sold out weeks or even months in advance.     Events  Each town and city in Nicaragua has annual celebrations for its patron saint. These celebrations ( fiestas patronales) include distinctive masked processions and mock battles involving folkloric figures satirizing the Spanish conquistadors. The most famous of these saints' days are held in honor of San Sebastian (January) and Santiago (July). Managua's main patronal fete is known as Toro Guaco.    
central_america_nicaragua_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Las Isletas is a group of 356 small islands just offshore from Granada in Lago de Nicaragua. The locals make a living out of fishing and growing tropical fruits such as mangoes and coconuts, and there is a remarkable variety of bird life. The island of San Pablo has a small fortress built by the Spaniards to protect against British pirates in the 18th century. Isla Zapatera is protected as a national park and is one of Nicaragua's most important archaeological areas. Giant stone statues erected by Indians in pre-Columbian times have been moved elsewhere, but you can visit other ancient tombs and structures. There are more tombs and some interesting rock carvings on Isla del Muerto (Island of the Dead).  
central_america_panama_activities.html:  Activities  There are hundreds of islands off both coasts of Panama, and because the coasts are just an hour's drive apart, you could easily spend the morning snorkeling in the Caribbean Sea and the afternoon swimming in the Pacific Ocean. Some of the best snorkeling and diving to be found in Central America can be found in the protected waters beside Panama's Coiba Island. Divers looking for something different might want to consider diving in the Panama Canal; not only are there wrecks to explore but also all kinds of submerged equipment left by the French when they worked on the railroad many decades ago. Surfers should check out Santa Catalina Beach, on the Azuero Peninsula, which periodically sees waves with 6m (20ft) faces, though they're usually hovering around 3m (10ft).  Fishing enthusiasts will be pleased to know that more deep-sea fishing records have been set at Pi as Bay, on the Pacific coast, than anywhere else in the world. You can see sea turtles in large numbers along both Panamanian coasts, although the Kunas' habit of lopping their heads off with machetes and eating them is taking a heavy toll. Cana, deep in the heart of Parque Nactional Darien, is birding nirvana, and what's more, you're likely to find yourself alone as you take in the great green, blue-and-yellow, red-and-green and chestnut-fronted macaws.  
central_america_panama_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital of Panama is a modern, thriving commercial center stretching 10km (6mi) along the Pacific coast from the ruins of Panam Viejo in the east to the edge of the Panama Canal in the west. The old district of San Felipe (also known as Casco Antiguo or Casco Viejo) juts into the sea on the southwestern side of town. It's an area of decaying colonial grandeur, striking architecture, peeling paint and decrepit balconies. Attractions include the 17th-century Metropolitan Church, the Interoceanic Canal Museum of Panama, the Plaza de Bol var, the presidential palace, the History Museum of Panama and the sea wall built by the Spaniards four centuries ago. Via Espa a's banking district is the complete opposite to this yesteryear charm, with aggressively modern buildings and sophisticated entertainments.  Attractions on the fringes of the city include the Panama Canal, the 16th-century ruins of Panam Viejo, the Summit Botanical Gardens and Zoo, the tropical rain forest of the Parque Nacional Sobreran a and the 265-hectare (655-acre) Parque Nacional Metropolitana.  
central_america_panama_environment.html:  Environment  The Isthmus of Panama is the umbilical cord joining South and Central America. It borders Costa Rica to the west and Colombia to the east. Panama's arched shape reflects both its role as a bridge between continents and as a passageway between oceans. At its narrowest point, it is only 50km (30mi) wide, but it has a 1160km (720mi) Caribbean coastline on its northern shore and a 1690km (1048mi) Pacific coast to the south. The famous canal is 80km (50mi) long and effectively divides the country into eastern and western regions.  There are hundreds of islands near the Panamanian coasts. The two major archipelagos are the San Blas and Bocas del Toro chains in the Caribbean Sea, though the best snorkeling, diving and deep-sea fishing are to be found in the Pacific near Coiba Island and the Pearl Islands. Panama has flat coastal lowlands and two mountain chains running along its spine. The highest peak is Volc n Bar at 3475m (11,400ft).  Rainforests dominate the canal zone, the northwestern portion of the country and much of the eastern half. Although Costa Rica is widely known for its fantastic wildlife, Panama has, in fact, a greater number of flora and fauna species, more land set aside for preservation and far fewer people wandering through the jungle looking for wildlife and inadvertently scaring it away. There's much truth in the Panamanian saying that in Costa Rica 20 tourists try to see one resplendent quetzal, but in Panama one person tries to see 20 of these exquisite birds.  Panama has two seasons. The dry season lasts from January to mid-April and the rainy season from mid-April to December. Rainfall is heavier on the Caribbean side of the highlands, though most people live on or near the Pacific coast. Temperatures are typically hot in the lowlands (between 21 C and 32 C/70 F and 90 F) and cool in the mountains (between 10-18 C/50-64 F). These vary little throughout the year.  
central_america_panama_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Every visitor needs a valid passport and an onward ticket to enter Panama, but further requirements vary from country to country and occasionally change. UK, Germany and Switzerland citizens and many other nationalities need only a passport, while people from Japan, New Zealand, USA, Venezuela and more need a tourist visa or tourist card (US$5) as well. Contact an embassy or consulate for current details.Health risks: Dengue fever, hantavirus (Los Santos province), malaria, rabies and yellow feverTime: GMT/UTC minus 5 hoursElectricity: Variable - either 110V or 220VWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Panama's tourist season is during the dry season from around mid-December to mid-April. The weather can be hot and steamy in the lowlands during the rainy season, when the humidity makes the heat more oppressive than otherwise. Rain in Panama tends to come in sudden short downpours that freshen the air and are followed by sunshine. If you'll be doing any long, strenous hiking, the dry season is the most comfortable time to do it; the Darien Gap can be crossed only at this time.  If you like to party, try to be in Panama City or on the Pen nsula de Azuero for Carnaval, held each year on the weekend before Ash Wednesday. Panama City's Carnaval celebration is one of the world's largest.     Events   Carnaval is celebrated over the four days preceding Ash Wednesday and involves music, dancing and a big parade on Shrove Tuesday. The celebrations in Panama City and Las Tablas are the most festive. The Semana Santa (Easter Week) celebrations at Villa de Los Santos, on the Pen nsula de Azuero, are equally renowned. The Festival of the Black Christ at Portobelo on October 21 includes a parade of the famous life-size statue of the Black Christ, and attracts pilgrims from all over the country.    
central_america_panama_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The islands of the San Blas Archipelago are strung out along the Caribbean coast of Panama from the Golfo de San Blas nearly all the way to the Colombian border. The islands are home to the Kuna Indians, who run the 378 islands as an autonomous province, with minimal interference from the national government. They maintain their own economic system, language, customs and culture, with distinctive dress, legends, music and dance. The economy of the islands is based on coconut sales, fishing and tourism, and they offer travelers good diving, snorkeling and swimming; the best diving conditions are between April and June. The most interesting islands are Achutupu, Kagantupu and Coco Blanco. There are flights to several of the islands from Panama City or you can catch a ride with Kuna merchant ships from Col n.  
central_asia_kazakstan_activities.html:  Activities   Trekking and mountaineering are particularly good in the Zailiysky Alatau and the Küngey, notably around Medeu, Shymbulaq and Kokshoky. There are more opportunities in eastern Kazakstan in the Zhungarsky Alatau range east of Taldy-Qorghan and in the Altay mountains in the country's north-east. The safest way to go trekking is through a reliable agency and with a guide, though you're advised to bring your own equipment since gear is hard to come by. The best trekking season is between June and September, though be prepared for bad weather at any time.   Shymbulaq is Central Asia's best known downhill ski area and is only a day trip from Almaty. January and February are the peak months of the ski season. A few local travel agents offer ski-mountaineering trips in the central Tian Shan in July and August, and in the Alatau range between Almaty and Lake Issyk-Kul from February through April. Nearly every sports-related agency offers heli-skiing to remote high peaks in old Aeroflot helicopters.   Rafting and canoeing trips on remote rivers can be arranged by several travel agencies. There is easy rafting and canoeing on the Ili River between Lake Qapshaghay and Lake Balqash, north of Almaty, from mid-April to mid-October.  
central_asia_kazakstan_attractions.html:  Attractions  This booming city was founded in 1854 as a Russian frontier fort when the Kazaks were still nomads and was capital of Kazakhstan until late 1997. Almaty has become a honeypot to Kazakhstanis and a mixed bunch of foreign traders, diplomats and financiers jockeying for position in the race to carve up Kazakhstan's mineral resources. Sudden exposure to the outside world turned this provincial outpost into Central Asia's most cosmopolitan city with shops, restaurants, hotels and casinos that would make the place unrecognisable to anyone who had been away since 1990. But now that the government has moved the capital to the northern city of Astana (previously known as Aqmola), Almaty's future is uncertain. Almaty is closer to the heart of the Russian railway network and farther from national borders and conflicts in Tajikistan and Afghanistan.   Almaty is clean (apart from its air) and easy on the eye, with long straight avenues and low-rise uniform architecture bearing the unmistakable imprint of Russia. The Zailiysky Alatau mountains rise like a wall along Almaty's southern fringe and form a superb backdrop when weather and smog permit. There are lots of parks, space and greenery, and many of the Soviet-era buildings are striking if you look at them individually. That said, there's not a great deal to do in Almaty, which is why, for many travellers, it is little more than a way-station.   Highlights include Panfilov Park, a pleasant rectangle of greenery surrounding the bright Zenkov Cathedral. The cathedral is one of the few tzarist-era buildings to survive the 1911 earthquake, despite the fact that it is built entirely of wood and constructed without nails. Facing the west end of the park is the elaborate Arasan Baths, where you can take your salami and vodka and contemplate the differences between Turkish, Russian and Finnish bathing habits. The Central State Museum provides a worthwhile, if patchy, introduction to Kazakhstan's history and includes a miniature replica of the country's chief archaeological treasure, the Golden Man - a warrior's costume made from 4000 gold pieces, many finely decorated with animal motifs.  
central_asia_kazakstan_environment.html:  Environment  Covering 2.7 million sq km (1.05 million sq mi), Kazakstan is the ninth biggest country in the world, about the size of western Europe or half the size of mainland USA. It borders Russia to the north, the Caspian Sea to the west, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan to the south and China to the east. Kazakstan is mainly dry and flat except for its alpine south-east and eastern fringes which lie along the northern edge of the mighty Tian Shan range. Mt Khan Tengri at 6995m (22,950ft), on the Kazakstan-Kyrgyzstan border, is the country's highest point. Lake Balqash in the central east is huge but shallow - the eastern half is salty, the western half fresh. Kazakstan's underground environment contains massive deposits of iron, coal, oil, gas, lead, bismuth, cadmium and thallium (these last three essential in electronics). These and other minerals have drawn hefty, if shady, foreign investment interest to Kazakstan's otherwise unpromising plains.   Back on top of the crust, Kazakstan has been badly ravaged by dodgy Soviet schemes which have poisoned, denuded and drained. The country was set aside for massive wheat production in the 1960s, setting off a train of ecological nightmares. Water from the Syr-Darya and Amu-Darya rivers was diverted for irrigation, causing the Aral Sea, which they fed, to shrink dramatically. The fishing port of Aralsk was left high and dry and became a ghost town; the fish died out from rising salt levels; rains stopped; salt, sand and dust blew in storms for hundreds of km around; birds and animals have fled the river delta. Chemical residues from agriculture have found their way into the rivers and into Kazakstan's drinking water, while the Kazakh steppe has become eroded, arid and salinised from over-cultivation. In case Kazakstan hadn't had enough, Moscow used the area between Semey and Pavlodar as a testing ground for nuclear weapons between 1949 and 1989; around 40 million people have been adversely affected by radiation.   Amazingly, there's still a reasonably good chance you'll see some memorable beasts and plants once you get out of the dead zones. At the very least there are the millions of rooks that inhabit the towns and the Cannabis indica that grows thick and wild by the roadsides. You're likely to spot antelope, brown bear, wild boar, lynx and eagles in Kazakstan's mountains, though sighting the elusive snow leopard may take a tad longer. Poppies and tulips grow wild in the grassy steppes, trampled upon by roe deer, wolves, foxes and badgers.   Summer is sizzingly hot with desert temperatures topping 40 C (105 F) during the day, but often dropping to less than half that at night. Snow starts to fall around November and the mountain passes fill with snow until April, sometimes even May. Winters are bitterly cold, even in the desert. Annual precipitation ranges from less than 100mm (3.9in) a year in the deserts to 1500mm (58.5in) in the mountains. Much of the summer rain on the steppes comes from violent thunderstorms which often cause local flash floods.  
central_asia_kazakstan_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: The Kazakstanis change visa rules more often than a nanny changes nappies so any information should be double checked with your travel agency. Basically the only sure-fire way of getting in and out of the country is by arranging an invitation, or 'visa support', from the Kazakstani police department or a resident, or by pre-paying all accommodation costs, flights and tourist bookings. The 72-hour transit visa, which allowed you into the country for that amount of time if you had a Russian visa, has been temporarily revoked and the happy-go-lucky days of yesterday when you could pick up a visa at the airport (albeit at ransomely-inflated prices) are gone. Just to increase the degree of difficulty in this transaction, most overseas embassies or consulates that used to issue Kazakstan visas no longer do and even getting one from a Russian embassy in a country without Kazakstan representation is a hit-and-miss affair. If you plan to cross overland from China,you may get a Kazak visa in Beijing and there's also a small Kazak embassy in Islamabad.Time: There are three time zones: GMT/UTC plus 4, 5 and 6 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 Hz, using European two-pin plugs (round pins, no earth connection). Bring a torch!Health risks: Hepatitis A & E, cholera, diptheria & undulant fever. Play it safe and don't drink the water even if locals say it's OK to drink.Weights & measures:Metric When to Go  As summers are ferociously hot and winters bitterly cold, spring (April to June) and autumn (September to November) are the best seasons to visit Kazakstan. In April, the desert blooms briefly and the monotonous ochre landscapes explode in reds, oranges and yellows. Autumn is harvest time, when market tables heave with freshly picked fruit. If you do decide to battle the winter, be aware that many domestic flights are grounded and finding food can be a problem since lots of eateries close for the season.     Events   Kazakstan isn't really known for its splashy mardi gras. Public holidays include two for New Year's Day (1 January and either 31 December or 2 January), Kazakstan Constitution Day (28 January), International Women's Day (8 March), Labour Day (1 May), Victory Day (a commemoration of the end of WWII for Russia on 9 May 1945), Republic Day (25 October) and Independence Day (16 December).   The spring festival of Nauryz ('New Days') is by far the biggest holiday. It's an Islamic adaptation of pre-Islamic vernal equinox or renewal celebrations and can include traditional games, music and drama festivals, street art and colourful fairs. Medeu, outside Almaty, hosts the Voice of Asia rock festival in August, when bands from all over the CIS and Asia dribble on the drum riser.   Important Muslim holy days, scheduled according to the lunar calendar, include Ramadan, the month of sunrise-to-sunset fasting; Eid-ul-Fitr, the celebrations marking the end of Ramadan; and Eid-ul-Azha, the feast of sacrifice, when those who can afford to, slaughter an animal and share it with relatives and the poor.    
central_asia_kazakstan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This 750 sq km (465 sq mi) reserve in the foothills of the Talassky Alatau range is one of the highlights of southern Kazakstan and the easiest visited of the country's nature reserves. The scenery ranges from mountain meadows and juniper forests to glaciers and a 4500m (14,760ft) peak. This is an important habitat for the rare snow leopard, though you stand a much better chance of seeing bears, ibex and birds of prey. Guided hikes or horseback trips can be arranged in the village of Zhabaghly, 100km (62mi) west of Zhambyl, which is a good day's train trip from Almaty.  
central_asia_kyrgyzstan_activities.html:  Activities  You can arrange skiing, mountaineering, trekking and horseback trips with adventure-travel agencies in Bishkek. There are also excellent walking opportunities in the Ala-Archa Canyon and Alamedin Canyon, both rolling out of the Kyrgyz Alatau above Bishkek. Karakol on Lake Issyk-Kul is a good base for organising skiing and trekking in the Terskey Alatau. There are plenty of thermal springs, massage and mudbath centres around the lake. For serious adventure treks and mountaineering, the Central Tian Shan is your playground, but don't underestimate the hazards.  
central_asia_kyrgyzstan_attractions.html:  Attractions  Bishkek (formerly Frunze) is the capital and industrial centre of Kyrgyzstan, and the only town in the world named after a wooden plunger - a bishkek is a churn used to make fermented mare's milk. It's a relaxed city of wide streets and handsome houses, though it's wise to be wary of walking around backstreets late at night. The city likes to boast that it has more trees per person than any other Central Asian city - which may be true - but when the wind is blowing in the wrong direction, smog from the industrial plants on the city's outskirts can still eat your throat away.  The city's history dates only as far back as 1825, so don't come here looking for architectural splendours or traces of the past - very little predates WWII. Travellers use Bishkek mainly as a jumping-off point for the Tian Shan mountains and Lake Issyk-Kul, and for the overland crossing into China via the Torugart Pass. The 4800m (15,744ft) permanently snowcapped ramparts of the Kyrgyz Alatau range loom over the city, beckoning travellers to move on and explore - who could resist?  
central_asia_kyrgyzstan_environment.html:  Environment  Landlocked Kyrgyzstan is slightly larger than Austria and Hungary put together. It borders Kazakstan in the north, China in the east, Tajikistan in the south and Uzbekistan in the west. Nearly 95% of the country is mountainous: almost half of it at an elevation of over 3000m (9840ft) and three-quarters of it under permanent snow and glaciers. The dominant feature is the Tian Shan range in the south-east. Its crest, the dramatic Kakshaal-Too range, forms a stunning natural border with China, culminating at Pik Pobedy (7439m/24,400ft), Kyrgyzstan's highest point. The southern border with Tajikistan lies along the Pamir Alay Range. Lake Issyk-Kul, almost 700m (2300ft) deep, lies in a vast indentation on the fringes of the Tian Shan in eastern Kyrgyzstan.  Though environmental pressures are as bad in Central Asia as anywhere, there's a reasonably good chance of seeing memorable beasts and plants, especially since Cannabis indica grows thick and wild by the roadsides. The mountains of Kyrgyzstan are the setting for high, grassy meadows - it's not unheard of to look out a train or bus window on the open steppe and see a rushing herd of antelope. Marmots and pikas are preyed upon by eagles and lammergeiers while the elusive snow leopard hunts the ibex amongst the crags and rocky slopes. Forests of Tian Shan spruce, larch and juniper provide cover for lynx, wolf, wild boar and brown bear. In summer, the wildflowers are a riot of colour.  The climate of this mountainous region is influenced by its distance from the sea and the sharp change of elevation from neighbouring plains. Conditions vary from permanent snow in high-altitude cold deserts to hot deserts in the lowlands. From the end of June through mid-August most afternoons reach 32 C (90 F) or higher, with an average annual maximum of 40 C (104 F). During the winter months, temperatures remain below freezing for about 40 days. The coldest month is January when winds blow in from Siberia.  
central_asia_kyrgyzstan_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Many Kyrgyz embassies now issue visas without letters of support. If you arrive with only a Russian or Kazak visa, you can stay 72 hours, during which time you might be able to get a Kyrgyz visa in Bishkek. All foreigners staying in the country for more than three days are expected to register with the Office of Visas & Regulations, preferably in Bishkek. A stamp from Bishkek is good for the whole country and normally lasts a month.Time: GMT/UTC plus 5 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50Hz. Bring a torch.Health risks: Hepatitis A & E, diphtheria, undulant fever, altitude sickness, and tuberculosis. Play it safe and don't drink the water even if locals say it's OK to drink.Weights & measures: Metric When to Go  At lower elevations, spring and autumn are probably the best seasons to visit weather-wise - in particular April to early June and September through October. In spring, the desert blooms briefly, while autumn is harvest time when the markets fill with fresh produce.  Summer is ferociously hot in the lowlands, but July and August are the best months to visit the mountains. Cold rains begin in November and snow soon closes mountain passes. The ski season at the Upper Ala-Archa Mountain Ski Base lasts from December to April. Note that winters are bitterly cold, even in the desert, and finding food can be a problem since lots of eateries close for the season. Many domestic flights are also grounded in winter.     Events  Kyrgyzstan isn't exactly full of festivals. Public holidays include Constitution Day (5 May), a commemoration of the end of WWII on Victory Day (9 May), Armed Forces Day (29 May) and Kyrgyzstan Independence Day (31 August). The spring festival of Navrus ('New Days') is an Islamic adaptation of pre-Islamic vernal equinox or renewal celebrations. It can include traditional games, music and drama festivals, street art and colourful fairs. Important Muslim holy days, scheduled according to the lunar calendar, include Ramadan, the month of sunrise to sunset fasting; Eid-ul-Fitr (or Orozo Ait), the celebrations marking the end of Ramadan; and Eid-ul-Azha, the feast of sacrifice, when those who can afford to, slaughter an animal and share it with relatives and the poor.    
central_asia_kyrgyzstan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The highest and mightiest part of the Tian Shan system, the central Tian Shan, is at the eastern end of Kyrgyzstan, along its borders with China and the southeastern tip of Kazakstan. It's an immense knot of ranges, with dozens of summits over 5000m (16,400ft), culminating in Pik Pobedy (Victory Peak), a 7439m (24,400ft) monster on the Kyrgyzstan-China border and the 6995m (22,944ft) Khan-Tengri, possibly the most beautiful and demanding peak in the Tian Shan, on the Kyrgyzstan-Kazakstan border. The central Tian Shan is Central Asia's premier territory for serious trekking and mountaineering, and several Central Asian adventure-travel firms will bring you here by helicopter, 4WD and/or foot. July and August are the warmest months at these elevations but even then make sure you're fully equipped for the terrain, altitude and weather.  
central_asia_tajikistan_activities.html:  Activities  Much of what would be prime hiking territory is prowled by men with weapons - get local advice on where to steer clear in the Pamir. The Fan mountains, at the western end of the Alay range along the Kyrgyzstan-Tajikistan border, are far from civil strife and safely accessible. The safest way to go trekking is through a reliable agency and with a guide, though you're advised to bring your own equipment since gear is hard to come by. The best trekking season is between June and September, though be prepared for bad weather at any time.  
central_asia_tajikistan_attractions.html:  Attractions  With a cool backdrop of mountains, lazy tree-lined avenues and pale, oriental-fringed buildings, Dushanbe may be a good-looking city but personality-wise it's a dead loss. It's an historically isolated backwater that's boring by day and dangerous at night. The large, covered Barakat market is what passes for the centre of activity in Dushanbe, though it's not particularly interesting; the city has many other makeshift bazars, but they're harrowing affairs composed of lines of people trying to sell whatever they can find at home - a pair of old shoes, coverless books, a dismantled washing machine motor, anything that somebody might conceivably trade a little cash for.  The city does have two interesting museums: the professional Museum of Ethnography, which showcases Tajik art such as pottery, carpets, jewellery and musical instruments, and the Tajikistan Unified Museum, which has interesting exhibits on history, natural history and art. It's worth seeing a performance at Ayni Opera & Ballet Theatre since it has the finest interior in the city.  
central_asia_tajikistan_environment.html:  Environment  At 143,100 sq km (55,800 sq mi), landlocked Tajikistan is Central Asia's smallest republic. More than half of it lies 3000m (9840ft) or more above sea level. The central part encompasses the southern reaches of the Tian Shan range while the south-east is raised high up in the Pamirs. Within these ranges are some of Central Asia's highest peaks, including Pik Lenina (7134m/23,400ft) and Pik Kommunizma (7495m/24,580ft). The western third of the country is lowland plain, bisected by two narrow ranges. Two rivers, the Amu-Darya and the Pyanj, mark most of the country's 1200km (740mi) border with Afghanistan. Tajikistan's other borders are much less well-defined: In the east the 430km (266mi) border with China meanders through Pamir valleys, while to the north and west are the equally random-seeming borders with Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.  Tajikistan's mountains are the setting for high, grassy meadows worthy of The Sound of Music. In summertime the wildflowers (including wild irises and edelweiss) are a riot of colour and trout lurk in the rushing streams. Marmots and pikas provide food for eagles and lammergeiers; the elusive snow leopard preys on the ibex, with which it shares a preference for crags and rocky slopes. Forests of Tian Shan spruce, larch and juniper provide cover for lynx, wolf, wild boar and brown bear.  Lowland Tajikistan veers between extrememly hot summers (an average maximum of 42 C/108 F in July) and extremely chilly winters (an average minimum of -12 C/10 F in January). From October through May, fierce snowstorms rage in the mountains and the temperature can drop to -45 C (-49 F), making getting around almost impossible. On the plains, strong duststorms can be expected from June through October. These winds can last for five days or more. After the storm passes, it can take as long as 10 days for the dust to settle.  
central_asia_tajikistan_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are not issued at the airport, nor at Tajikistan's border crossings. Border controls are rare but there are frequent internal checkpoints, and if you intend moving outside Dushanbe you must have impeccable documents. You can currently get visas at Tajik consulates in Moscow and Bonn. If you do arrive in Tajikistan without a visa, the immigration department of the Foreign Ministry in Dushanbe may give you one. Note that every Tajik town that you intend visiting or passing through should be listed on your visa. As a result of border tensions and smuggling, the army and militia do not appreciate the presence of foreigners, and if officials are not completely satisfied with your papers you will probably be deported.Time: GMT/UTC plus 5 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 Hz using European two-pin plugs (round pins, no earth connection). Bring a torch.Health risks: Hepatitis A & E, altitude sickness, cholera, diphtheria, typhoid, undulant fever, and a slight risk of malaria in the south. Don't drink the water, even if the locals say it's OK to drink.Weights & measures: Metric When to Go  As summers are ferociously hot and winters bitterly cold, spring (April to June) and autumn (September to November) are the best seasons to visit Tajikistan. If you do decide to battle the winter, be aware that many domestic flights are grounded and finding food can be a problem since lots of eateries close for the season.     Events  Most Tajiks have more on their mind than splashy partying. Public holidays include New Year's Day (January 1), International Women's Day (March 8), Labour Day (May 1) and Victory Day (a commemoration of the end of WWII for Russia on May 9, 1945).  The spring festival of Nauryz ('New Days') is by far the biggest holiday. It's an Islamic adaptation of pre-Islamic vernal equinox or renewal celebrations and can include traditional games, music and drama festivals, street art and colourful fairs. Important Muslim holy days, scheduled according to the lunar calendar, include Ramadan, the month of sunrise-to-sunset fasting; Eid-ul-Fitr, the celebrations marking the end of Ramadan; and Eid-ul-Azha, the feast of sacrifice, when those who can afford to, slaughter an animal and share it with relatives and the poor.    
central_asia_tajikistan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  They're known locally as Bam-i-Dunya (the Roof of the World) and once you're in the Pamirs, it's not hard to see why. They are the node from which several of the world's highest ranges radiate, including the Karakoram and Himalaya to the south, the Hindu Kush to the west, and the Tian Shan straddling the Kyrgyz-Chinese border. A network of high, wide valleys nestles amongst the 7000m (23,000ft) plus peaks, but for the most part the Pamirs are too high for human settlement. Instead the slopes and valleys are inhabited by hardier creatures such as the Marco Polo sheep, the elusive snow leopard and the even more elusive 'giant snowman'.  The Pamiris who inhabit the high altitude valleys speak a multitude of Pamiri dialects and are Ismailis, a breakaway sect of Shia Islam. They have no mosques, no clerics and no weekly holy day. The spiritual leader of the Ismailis is the Aga Khan, a Swiss-born businessman and horsebreeder revered by the Pamiris as a living god. It's the Aga Khan's charity that currently provisions the area, keeping starvation at bay, since the Pamiris backed the losing side in the civil war and haven't exactly been inundated with government aid.  Not having two potatoes to fry together has done nothing to lessen the hospitality of the Pamiris, whose natural inclination is to share. Since travel in the Pamir region is beset with obstacles - such as the absolute dearth of transport and food - you will no doubt experience this hospitality during your visit. There are plenty of isolated farmsteads along the mountain routes and these operate as rough-and-ready guesthouses. You can expect to be offered floor space, a pungent sheep-skin blanket and a hot bowl of sher chay, tea with goat's milk, salt and butter. To avoid the acute discomfort of discovering that your host has just slaughtered the last family chicken in your honour, bring all your own provisions into the area since there are no shops or eating houses in the Pamirs.  The main town in the region is Khorog (pop 22,000), the capital of the autonomous region of Gorno-Badahkshan. It lies 2000m (6560ft) above sea level, strung out irregularly along the slopes of the dashing Gunt river. The flight from Dushanbe to Khorog is one of the most exhilarating (and terrifying, depending on your confidence in Tajik pilots) you'll ever have the (mis)fortune to make. For most of the 45-minute flight the aircraft scoots along mountain valleys, flying in the shadow of rockfaces with its wingtips so close you could swear they were kicking up flurries of snow. If you get nervous, console yourself with the knowledge that only one plane has failed to make the trip in recent years - and that was shot down by rocket fire from Afghanistan.  
central_asia_turkmenistan_activities.html:  Activities   Trekking is possible in the Kopet Dag mountains, though much of the range is out of bounds as it forms a sensitive border with Iran. The safest way to proceed is to engage a guide through a reliable agency. Bring your own equipment since gear is hard to come by. The best trekking season is between June and September, though be prepared for bad weather at any time. Some of the agencies that arrange treks can also set up horse or camel treks. If lurching across the Karakum desert on a camel appeals or you'd love to gallop across the sand on one of Turkmenistan's famed Akhal-Teke horses, get on down.  
central_asia_turkmenistan_attractions.html:  Attractions  Ashghabat is not the end of the world, but it feels like it can't be more than a short bus ride away. It has a dust-blown, shutter-banging-in-the-wind quality, and on a sun-scorched afternoon all that's missing are vultures wheeling in the burning blue sky. Belying the seductive imagery of its name, nobody seems too excited about this 'City of Love'. It's out of sight, out of mind as far as Moscow is concerned, and Turkmen traditionally don't care for cities. The fact that Ashghabat was wiped off the face of the earth by an earthquake in 1948 doesn't help either; 110,000 people died and for five years the area was closed to outsiders while bodies were recovered and the wreckage cleared.  Consequently there are no great camera-friendly monuments, no shady tree-houses from which to watch the world go by, and travellers have to work hard to make a stay worthwhile. The highlight of the city is definitely the huge Sunday Tolkuchka bazaar which attracts a colourful Cecil B de Mille cast of thousands. It sprawls across acres of desert on the outskirts of the city, and consists of corrals of camels and goats, avenues of red-clothed women squatting before silver jewellery, and clusters of trucks from which Uzbeks hawk everything from pistachios to car parts. The bazar is a great place to purchase Turkmenistan's traditional dark red carpets. If you can't get enough of the famous rugs, there's a Carpet Museum which, among other things, includes the world's largest handwoven rug.  The remains of the vanished ancient cities of Nisa and Anau are just outside Ashghabat, but there's little to see unless you're an archaeologist, historian or have a good imagination. Firuza, the old hunting reserve of the Persian royal family, is now a popular mountain escape for those seeking relief from the heat of the plains. The settlement is squeezed into a gorge 30km (19mi) south-west of Ashghabat and is the closest independent travellers can get to exploring the Kopet Dag mountains which form the Turkmen-Iranian border. Buried 60m (200ft) underground in the accessible lower slopes of the Kopet Dag mountains is a hot-water mineral lake known as the 'Father of Lakes' where you can take a dip in 36 C (97 F) waters, if you don't mind surfacing to the smell of rotten eggs.  
central_asia_turkmenistan_environment.html:  Environment  Bounded by the Caspian Sea in the west and the Amu-Darya river to the east, Turkmenistan covers 488,100 sq km (190,360 sq mi), making it the second largest of the former Soviet Central Asian republics after Kazakstan. It's very sparsely populated, the major reason being that four-fifths of the country is waterless desert. The Karakum (Black Sands), one of the largest sand deserts in the world, fills the entire central region of the country with great crescent-shaped sand dunes and cracked, baked-clay surfaces. To the south, the Karakum is fringed by the Kopet Dag (Lots of Mountains), an earthquake prone range that forms a formidable 1500km (930mi) natural border with Iran and, farther east, Afghanistan. Smaller ranges of the north-west edge of the desert mark Turkmenistan's border with Kazakstan. Apart from the Amu-Darya there are precious few water courses to bring life to the arid region.  Turkmenistan's wildlife has a Middle Eastern streak, understandable when you consider that parts of the country are as close to Baghdad as they are to Tashkent. Leopards and porcupines inhabit the parched hills. Also eking out a living in the desert are the goitred gazelle, gophers, sand rats, jerboas (small jumping rodents) and the varan or 'sand crocodile', actually a type of large lizard. Turkmenistan is also noted for its big poisonous snakes including vipers and cobras. In the southern mountains there are ancient forests of wild walnut and pistachio trees.  Unsurprisingly for a desert nation, Turkmenistan is characterised by a lack of rainfall, lots of searing sunshine and high temperatures. During summer, daytime temperatures are rarely lower than 35 C (95 F) with highs in the south-east Karakum desert of up to 50 C (122 F). By contrast, in winter the temperature in Kushka, on the mountainous Afghan border, drops as low as -33 C (-27 F). In the capital, Ashghabat, there are rarely more than a couple of days when it drops below freezing and by April the heat is already uncomfortable.  
central_asia_turkmenistan_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Every visitor to Turkmenistan needs to obtain a visa and a letter of invitation before turning up at the border. Failure to have such a letter, or at the very least, a personal statement with an itinerary, is likely to mean that your experience of Turkmenistan will be limited to what you can see as you fly straight back out of there.Health risks: Hepatitis A & E, diphtheria, tuberculosis & undulant fever. Don't drink the water even if locals say it's OK to drink.Time:GMT/UTC plus 5 hoursElectricity:220V, 50 Hz, using European two-pin plugs (round pins, no earth connection). Bring a torch.Weights & measures:Metric When to Go  As summers are ferociously hot and winters bitterly cold, spring (April to June) and autumn (September to November) are the best seasons to visit Turkmenistan. In April the desert blooms briefly and the monotonous ochre landscapes explode in reds, oranges and yellows. Autumn is harvest time, when market tables heave with freshly picked fruit. If you do decide to battle the winter, be aware that many domestic flights are grounded and finding food can be a problem since lots of eateries close for the season.     Events  Turkmenistan isn't known for its jolly street parades. Public holidays include New Year's Day (1 January), Remembrance Day (anniversary of a 1948 earthquake on 12 January), National Flag Day (19 February), International Women's Day 8 March), Labour Day (1 May), Victory Day (a commemoration of the end of WWII for Russia on 9 May 1945) and Independence Day (27 October).  The spring festival of Nauryz ('New Days') is one of Turkmenistan's biggest holidays. It's an Islamic adaptation of pre-Islamic vernal equinox or renewal celebrations and can include traditional games, music and drama festivals, street art and colourful fairs. Important Muslim holy days, scheduled according to the lunar calendar, include Ramadan, the month of sunrise to sunset fasting; Eid-ul-Fitr, the celebrations marking the end of Ramadan; and Eid-ul-Azha, the feast of sacrifice, when those who can afford to, slaughter an animal and share it with relatives and the poor.    
central_asia_turkmenistan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The port town of Turkmenbashi is enclosed by a crescent of mountains looking out over the turquoise-blue Caspian Sea. The surrounding pocked desert shoreline seems composed of grey dust frosted with salt rather than sand and looks more like NASA footage of the moon. Turkmenbashi is Central Asia's sole port and sea link to European Russia. It has been variously described as 'miserable', 'joyless' and a 'desolate dust-heap', but while it's definitely hot and dusty, it's also quite attractive in a sleepy Mediterranean sort of way. If you can cope with a little grime and aren't too choosy about what you eat, then this single-storey, pastel-painted port is a relaxing spot to rest up for a day or two, and there are hikes into the surrounding mountains that offer fine views of the town. Ashghabat is to the south-east, 12 hours away by train.  
central_asia_uzbekistan_activities.html:  Activities  There's good rafting and kayaking a few hours by bus from Tashkent - you'll find flat water on the Syr-Darya and Angren rivers and more exciting stretches on the Ugan, Chatkal and Pskem. The peak rafting season is in September and October. The recreation zone of Chimgan, three hours by bus north-east of Tashkent, is a popular centre for winter sports, though it runs a poor second to those near Bishkek (Kyrgyzstan) and Almaty (Kazakstan).  There are fine walks in the Angren River Valley, four hours by bus west of Tashkent; the canyon of the upper Angren, in particular, is spectacular. There are also good hiking trails from the Uzbekistan pocket of Shakhimardan, in the Pamir Alay Range south of the Ferghana Valley, all of which head into surrounding Kyrgyzstan.  
central_asia_uzbekistan_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Uzbek capital, once the fourth largest city in the former USSR, is Central Asia's hub and has better international flight connections than any other city in the region. That said, it's not a picture-postcard destination. Thanks to a huge earthquake in 1966 and the subsequent enthusiasm of Soviet planners, little remains of the city's 2000-year history. Most visitors agree that Tashkent is the most Soviet city in Central Asia and it's said that many of the region's anxious Slavs who won't or can't return to the Motherland are moving to the relative cultural security of this city since it is still at least half Russian-speaking (if not Russian).  It's worth taking a stroll around the remnants of the old town, eski shakhar. This maze of narrow dusty streets lined by low, mudbrick houses, mosques and medressas (Islamic academies) seems to have been spared by Soviet planners to show what things would have been like without the glories of socialism. Kukeldash Medressa is a grand 16th century academy undergoing restoration, whose plaza overflows with worshippers on warm Friday mornings; the tiny 15th century Jami mosque nearby was used during the Soviet era as a sheet metal workshop. Chorsu Bazaar, a huge open market beside Kukeldash, draws crowds of people from the countryside, many in traditional dress.  What Tashkent lacks in old things, it makes up for in big museums about them. The Museum of Fine Arts has a fine collection of the art of pre-Russian Turkestan, including Zoroastrian artefacts, serene 1000-year-old Buddhist statues and Sogdian murals. The Museum of Applied Arts opened in 1937 as a showcase for turn-of-the-century applied arts, though the building itself - designed in traditional Tashkent style - is more interesting than its contents. There are other museums devoted to History (always with a capital 'H'), antiquities, literature, geology and railways. For a bit of light relief, check out the Navoi Opera & Ballet Theatre, the venue for some of the world's cheapest classical opera and the only Soviet building in Tashkent with anything approaching a personality.  
central_asia_uzbekistan_environment.html:  Environment  Uzbekistan borders Turkmenistan in the west, Kazakstan in the north and east, and Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and a sliver of Afghanistan in the south. It's a flat, monotonous country about the same size as Sweden - over two-thirds of it, mostly in the west, is steppe and desert. The only relief is the delta where the Amu-Darya empties into what remains of the Aral Sea. In the east, however, Uzbekistan tilts upward towards the mountains of its neighbours, and this is where the country's life-giving rivers rise. Central Asia's greatest waterway, the Amu-Darya, forms much of the border with Turkmenistan and Afghanistan. The richest farmland (and, therefore, the bulk of the population) is nestled in gaps in the mountains, on the alluvial planes at their feet, and along the country's three big rivers.  To describe Uzbekistan as an environmental planning disaster would be understating things. Several programmes put in place in the Soviet era are still wreaking havoc on the country. In the 1960s, Soviet planners set out to increase Uzbekistan's cotton production through a system of vastly increased irrigation, which meant tapping the rivers flowing into the Aral Sea, in the north of the country. As a result, the sea has lost 75% of its volume and its area has reduced by half. The area's fishing industry has been destroyed, the climate has been perverted (there are four times as many rainless days as there were in the 1950s) and the resulting salination of soil and water as well as chemical residues from cotton farming have caused serious health problems in the population. Native flora and fauna have also been devastated. Irrigation projects in the steppes of Uzbekistan have also degraded the soil, polluted the water, and caused large-scale erosion, aridity and salinity.  Temperatures in Uzbekistan vary wildly, with 20 C (68 F) drops at night and dramatic differences between the deserts and mountains. Rain is minimal except at higher altitudes - what there is falls mainly from March to April and October to November, turning everything to mud. The lowlands can be quite pleasant from May to early June and September to early October. Midsummer is insane, with temperatures up to 40 C (104 F) in Tashkent, and 50 C (122 F) in southern Uzbekistan. In winter (January to February), daytime temperatures hover around -5 C to 10 C (23 F to 50 F).  
central_asia_uzbekistan_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Every visitor to Uzbekistan needs a visa, and you will need an invitation from an Uzbek citizen, firm or organisation approved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or from an accredited Uzbek travel agent.Health risks: Hepatitis A & E, diphtheria & undulant fever. Play it safe and don't drink the water even if locals say it's OK to drink.Time:GMT/UTC plus 5 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures:Metric When to Go  Spring (April to June) and autumn (September through October) are, generally speaking, the most pleasant times to travel. The weather is mild and in April the desert blooms briefly. In autumn it's harvest time, and the markets are full of fresh fruit. If you're interested in trekking the mountains, summer (July and August) is a better time to visit; at all other times the weather is unpredictable and there can be snow in the passes.     Events  By far the biggest Central Asian holiday is the spring festival of Navrus (New Days), an Islamic adaptation of pre-Islamic vernal equinox or renewal celebrations, celebrated approximately on the vernal equinox (21 March). It's a two day affair consisting of traditional games, music, drama festivals, street art and colourful fairs, and one of the best places to get in on the fun is Samarkand. Ramadan, the month of sunrise-to-sunset fasting, is observed with little fanfare in most of Uzbekistan, and travellers will still find plenty of food available. Qurban, the Feast of Sacrifice, is celebrated with the slaughter of animals and the sharing of meat with relatives and the poor.  In May of even-numbered years, Tashkent hosts a film festival which features celluloid style from Africa, Asia and Latin America. Samarkand hosts the Children's Peace & Disarmament Festival every 23 October - celebrations revolve around the International Museum of Peace & Solidarity, a remarkable collection of memorabilia. The Nukus' Pakhta-Bairam harvest festival, held in Karakalpak in December, is one of the few places in the world where you'll see a game of ylaq oyyny. In this Central Asian form of polo, players hit a goat carcass around the field - Prince Charles would fit right in. If that gets the adrenalin flowing, you can also check out wrestling, ram fighting and cock fighting.    
central_asia_uzbekistan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This broad, flat, fertile valley, surrounded by the Tian Shan to the north and the Pamir Alay range to the south, is the heartland of Uzbekistan, the most densely settled part of Central Asia and the focus of the region's silk production. The Russians were quick to turn vast areas of the valley to cotton production and transform its ancient trading towns into ugly industrial zones, so for the visitor its main assets are a conservative, proud and hospitable people, the kaleidoscopic bazaar at Marghlan and the proximity of the mountains. Transport hubs in the valley include Kokand, Ferghana and Marghilan. Daily flights connect Tashkent to Ferghana, buses travel to Kokand and trains to Marghilan.  
europe_albania_activities.html:  Activities  Albania's beaches are gorgeous, and you could spend a month travelling the Adriatic and Ionian coasts hopping from one stunning, sun-soaked spot to another. Inland, hiking is a possibility through forests and farmland, although you should stock up on hiking provisions before you leave the larger towns. The many mountains and cliffs offer opportunities for climbing, although climbing supplies are limited in Albania. The coast and central plains are ideal for cycling, as long as you can negotiate a route through the poorly maintained roads.  
europe_albania_attractions.html:  Attractions  Capital of Albania since 1920, Tirana is compact and pleasant enough to explore on foot. It lies almost exactly midway between Rome and Istanbul, and its architecture has been influenced by both, as well as by the Soviet Union. Most visitors to Tirana begin at Sk nderberg Square, a great open space in the heart of the city. Mt Dajti, 1612m (5030ft) rises to the east, and the market on that side of town is well worth exploring.  The National Museum of History is the largest and finest museum in Albania, and you'll find it next to the 15 storey Tirana International Hotel, the tallest building in the country. A huge mosaic mural entitled Albania covers the fa ade of the building. To the east, the Palace of Culture has a theatre, restaurant, cafes and art galleries, and the Soviet influence is apparent in its clunky architecture. The entrance to the National Library is on the southern side of the building. Opposite that is the cupola and minaret of the Mosque of Ethem Mey, built in 1793 and one of the city's most distinctive buildings. Tirana's clock tower, built in 1830, stands beside the mosque.  A statue of Enver Hoxha once stood on the high marble plinth between the National Museum of History and the State Bank in Sk nderberg Square, but it was toppled after the return to democracy, and a small fairground now takes up the centre of the square. Over the Lana River to the south are the sloping white marble walls of the former Enver Hoxha Museum, which is occasionally used as an exhibition centre and slated to be turned into a disco. The red star has been removed from the pyramid-shaped building's tip. Further south on Bulevardi D shmor t e Kombit are the ultramodern Palace of Congress and the Archaeological Museum, which has a fantastic selection of objects from prehistoric times to the Middle Ages.  The best budget accommodation in Tirana is through private rented apartments or with local families. The formerly cheap state-owned hotels have either closed or been renovated, and now ask substantially higher prices. New hotels are similarly out of the budget traveller's reach. There are plenty of places to eat cheaply on Sk nderberg Square and on Bulevardi D shmor t e Kombit, and small and stylish bars have sprung up all over town.  
europe_albania_environment.html:  Environment  A few thousand square km smaller than Belgium, Albania basks on the south-eastern shore of the Adriatic, just a hop, skip and a jump across the waves from Italy. It shares its southern border with Greece, Macedonia lies to the east, and Yugoslavia and the troubled province of Kosovo lie beyond its northern border. The interior of the country is mostly mountainous and over 36% is forested. Despite its position in Eastern Europe, you know you're in the Mediterranean as the plains are extensively planted with olives, citrus and vineyards. A few large lakes, one of them the deepest in the Balkans (Lake Ohrid, at 294m or 931ft) stretch along the borders with Yugoslavia, Macedonia and Greece. The Ionian coast, particularly the 'Riviera of Flowers' from Vlora to Saranda, has some of the most beautiful scenery in the country.  Albania has six National Forests, 24 nature reserves and 2000 natural monuments, but the protection for all of these areas is mainly on paper. All parks are under threat from human activities such as hunting and wood cutting, and Albania simply doesn't have the money to pay for adequate park management. In 1994 hunting was prohibited, which led to some improvements in protected areas such as the Karavasta Lagoon in the Divjake National Park, the most western nesting site in Europe of the endangered Dalmatian Pelican. Environmental pollution is a major cause for concern; nearly all raw sewage is pumped into the rivers untreated, and instances of leaking effluent and deliberate discharges of chemicals from industry have grown to nightmarish proportions.  Albania has hot, dry summers and cool, wet winters. Summers along the coast are moderated by sea breezes. Around 40% of the rain falls during the winter months, and in winter the central mountains are very cold as continental air masses move in. Even in the cities winter can be uncomfortably bracing, as most rooms are unheated and tap water can be icy.  
europe_albania_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of the EU, Australia, the USA, Canada and several other countries don't need a visa. Those who do can get them at the border, for a price equivalent to what an Albanian would pay for a visa for their countries.Health risks: Diarrhoea; service at state run hospitals is not greatTime: GMT/UTC + 1 hourElectricity: 220 volts, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best month to visit is September, when it's still warm, the days are long and the fruit and vegetables are in good supply. The sun shines longest from May to September, and July is the warmest month, but even April and October can be pleasant.     Events  Public holidays include New Year's Day (1 January), Easter Monday (March/April), Independence and Liberation Day (28 November) and Christmas Day (25 December). Ramadan and Bajra, two important Muslim holidays, are also celebrated.    
europe_albania_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Elbasan lies midway between Pogradec and Durr s, and the town has been prominent since 1974, when the Chinese built a steel mill ('Steel of the Party') there. It also has a cement factory and a growing pollution problem, but Elbasan is not completely without charm. It was founded by the Romans in the 1st century AD, and strong stone walls with 26 towers were added in the 4th to protect it against invading barbarians. In 1466 Sultan Mohammed II rebuilt the walls and renamed the town El Basan ('The Fortress') in Turkish. The 17th century Turkish Baths are in the centre of town, on the opposite side of the park from the Ethnographical Museum. Go through the Bazaar Gate near the clock tower and follow a road north past the 15th century King's Mosque to St Mary's Orthodox Church, which has beautiful stone arcades on its walls. Elbasan is 54km (33mi) south-east of Tirana, and buses, minibus taxis and trains make the journey daily.  
europe_alicante_activities.html:  Activities  Most visitors to Alicante get to their hotel and then head straight out to the city's gorgeous beaches. There are a multitude of watersports to get the adrenaline pumping, or you can take a leisurely swim or snorkel - if you can drag yourself off your beach towel, that is. The main urban beach, El Postiguet, sits on the Northwestern side of town, at the end of the Explanada de Espana. The nearby La Playa de San Juan offers 7km (4mi) of wide, open beachfront and golden white sands. If you're looking for something more secluded, there's La Albufereta, a small beach sheltered by the headland of the Serra Grossa. If you want a beach where you can get naked, head for Los Judios (Spanish for 'without pants') or the El Saladar (Spanish for 'sunburnt love-parts'). But it's not all beaches and nudity - Alicante also offers tennis and golf, as well as mountain climbing in the nearby Sierra Aitana and scuba diving off the coast of the Isla de Tabarca.  As the sun sets over the beach, get into your hotpants and get on up to Alicante's many bars and nightclubs. You'll find most of the best clubs in the old city centre or El Barrio, but there's also good music and dance action to be found along the Explanada de Espana.  
europe_alicante_attractions.html:  Attractions  Long a symbol of Alicante, the Castillo de Santa Barbara, the stuff of fairy tales, with high walls and domed turrets, sits on the summit of Mount Benacantil, overlooking the city and the Mediterranean Sea. You can reach it by car or, better, on a passenger lift from Postiguet beach. The various parts of the castle date from medieval times to the sixteenth century and offer plenty of castle-type fun: drawbridges, stone passages, hidden tunnels, a real dungeon and - more surprising - a beautiful garden filled with works by Spanish master sculptors.  
europe_alicante_facts.html:  When to Go  You may prefer not to visit Alicante and its surrounding towns over summer (June-August), because millions of other people will. During the summer peak tourist season, prices are higher, accommodation is hard to find without a reservation, and the sun is at its hottest; the temperature rarely falling below 30 C (86 F). Advice like that may miss the point though: you might want to go in summer precisely because this means the biggest holiday crowds, wildest parties and hottest sun of your life. Let's just say if you're looking for something quiet this year, summer in Alicante might not be for you.  It's certainly worth visiting Alicante at other times of the year, when there will be thousands fewer harassed, sweating groups of British, Danes and Germans on the beaches. The sun shines all through autumn and spring, and most of winter. There are some heavy rains in spring (March-May) and autumn, (September-November), but these don't happen very often, and the sun quickly evaporates what hasn't been sluiced underground. Winters are mild, with the average temperature hovering at around 18 C (64 F).     Events  Spanish towns are famous for their festivals, often a mixture of solemn religious observance and rambunctious street party. In late April the Muslims and Christians Festival commemorates the reconquitsa (reconquest), or defeat and expulsion of the Moors from Alicante in the 13th century. Hundreds of locals turn out for the parade wearing splendid period costume. Alicante's key festival, however, is the fabulous Festival de Sant Joan, a week-long affair in late June. Drinking and dancing stop only for an outrageous street procession of floats bearing forgueres, huge, grotesque satirical figures made of wood and paper mache. The festival climaxes on the night of 24 June with a monstrous palmera, or fireworks display, a raucous ceremonial burning of all the floats and their brightly coloured passengers, a public hose-down of the forgueres and the crowd by the fire department, and then, incredibly, even more drinking and dancing.  Only a week later, before you can even pick yourself off the floor, it's time for the Feast of San Pedro at the start of July, with more processions, more effigies, more fireworks, and more drinking and dancing in and around makeshift wooden party enclosures known as barracas. The rest of the year is more subdued. September sees the annual theatre festival, Alicante e Esena and the Alicante International Music Festival. In December puppets from all over the world gather for the International Puppet Festival and are thankful to leave town without being attached to fireworks or put in parades and then burnt.    
europe_alicante_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Benidorm is not exactly off the beaten track, but, paradoxically, it's becoming so popular that more and more people are choosing not to go there. A sprawling resort city, 40km (25 mi) north of Alicante, Benidorm is a kind of super-disco package-tour concrete high-rise party town, drawing in over five million visitors annually. It offers 130 hotels and more than 5000 apartment spaces, over 600 restaurants and cafes, hundreds more bars and clubs, and only 5km (3mi) of beach to hold multitudes of soon-to-be-badly-sunburnt Northern European tourists. Benidorm's clubs are enormous, with a house and techno scene that almost rivals Ibiza's. There's also a 'Mediterranean' theme fun park, Terra Mitica (Mystery Land); Aquilandia, Europe's largest water fun park; and Mundomar, an animal theme park with, among other things, parrots, dolphins and sea lions.  
europe_amsterdam_activities.html:  Activities  The locals are big on ice skating, especially on frozen canals and the Museumplein pond in winter; when nature doesn't comply, try the Jaap Edenbaan indoor and outdoor rinks instead. Cycling is one of the main ways to get around - Amsterdam is wonderfully flat. Jogging is popular, particularly in the Vondelpark, and the Amsterdamse Bos has several walking and jogging trails for serious exercise. At Het Twiske you can walk, bike or rent boats.  The Dutch are into sailing in a big way and windsurfing is almost a national sport. On weekends a fleet of restored flat-bottomed boats crisscross the watery expanse of the IJsselmeer. There are indoor pools and summer outdoor pools for swimming, and saunas for relaxing in afterward. You can pump iron or do aerobics at various gyms around the city. Tennis and squash can be played, bungy jumping is possible and intellectuals can make do with exercising their minds at chess.  
europe_amsterdam_attractions.html:  Attractions  The gateway to Amsterdam's museum quarter is the Rijksmuseum, the country's premier art museum and an easy place to overdose on old masters. As well as works by Rembrandt, Vermeer, Hals and Steen, there are doll houses, delftware, Asiatic art, changing displays of prints and drawings and special travelling exhibitions. From autumn 2003 until 2008 the museum will undergo a massive, ?200 million refurbishment. During this period the Philips Wing will remain open and show highlights of the collection. The Van Gogh Museum nearby houses about 200 paintings by Vincent, including famous works like The Potato Eaters and The Yellow House in Arles. Japanese prints which influenced the old ear-slicer are also on display. The Stedelijk Museum next door focuses on art from 1850 to the present. It's one of the world's leading museums of modern art and has an eclectic, provocative collection. Renovation plans have been delayed, with the museum closing for renovations in 2004, instead of 2003.   Anne Frankhuis, west of the centre, draws over half a million tourists each year. Visitors file through the achterhuis (annexe) pilgrim-style; it was here that the Jewish Frank family went into hiding to try to escape deportation during the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands. The Franks and four others hid in the part of the house concealed behind a revolving bookcase from July 1942 to August 1944, when they were betrayed to the Gestapo. Anne's diary was found among the litter in the annexe and has since been translated into 55 languages. It's worth getting here early as the queues can be exasperating.  Many of Amsterdam's museums have a lighter side. The Seksmuseum near Dam Square has a bizarre collection of pornographic materials. The Hash and Marijuana Museum in the red-light district, may appeal to those with a special interest. The Amsterdams Historisch Museum, housed in an old orphanage, has creative displays about the city, and the Nederlands Scheepvaartmuseum has an engaging collection of maritime memorabilia.  
europe_amsterdam_facts.html:  When to Go  Any time can be the best time to visit Amsterdam. The summer months are wonderful as the whole city seems to live outdoors, but it's also the peak tourist season, when things are full and expensive. From mid-October to mid-March the climate is miserable, but there are fewer tourists, things are cheaper and cultural life is at its most authentic. The shoulder seasons - mid-March to late-May and late-August to mid-October - can offer the best of both worlds. If you could pick on emonth of the year, choose September and hope for an Indian summer. August is the top month for special events.     Events  Year-round, Amsterdam hosts myriad festivals, cultural happenings and sporting events, but the city really comes alive in summer. Catering to the tourist influx, theatres program English performances and free, open-air entertainment happens in parks, streets and on the canals. Winter has its own share of special events: it doesn't happen every year, but when it does it's legendary - if the canals freeze right, you can't miss the Eleven Cities' Journey, a gruelling skating marathon through the countryside of Friesland, held in January. In March, Catholics walk along the Holy Way in the Silent Procession, which commemorates the Miracle of Amsterdam.   Queen's Day, on 30 April, is the day to be in Amsterdam - there's a free market, street parties, live music and lots of beer. National Windmill Day is in May and open garden days are held the same month. The Holland Festival, the country's biggest arts festival, runs throughout June, and in August local theatre groups and orchestras perform free throughout the city. August also sees Canal Parade, the only waterborne gay pride parade in the world. September hosts the Flower Parade, and in November Sinterklaas arrives by ship from Spain. Also in November, the Cannabis Cup celebrates the sacred herb. Sinterklaas, the traditional Dutch Christmas, is held on 6 December, although gifts are handed out the evening before. The standard-issue Christmas is also celebrated, with Christmas Eve also traditionally marked.   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day March/April - Good Friday, Easter Sunday, Easter Monday 30 April - Queen's Day mid-late May - Ascension Day late May - Whit Sunday and Monday 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to AmsterdamTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_amsterdam_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Jordaan is an old working-class neighbourhood, now partly colonised by students, artists and trendies. This is a great place to wander around, get lost and soak up the atmosphere of people going about their daily business. Houses here are tiny but tidy, with lace curtains and window boxes, and spionnetje (little spy) mirrors attached to the windowsills so auntie Greet can see who's coming and going. The Jordaan is full of inviting pubs and restaurants, offbeat shops, weird little art galleries and lively markets. There's also a high concentration of hofjes (courtyards) here, many of them with beautifully restored houses and lovingly maintained gardens. In theory, they're closed to the public, but if you do come across one of the unobtrusive entrances, and it is unlocked, most residents won't mind if you sneak a peek.  
europe_andalucia_activities.html:  Activities  Active visitors won't be able to sit still in Andaluc a. With such a fantastic choice of watersports on the coast, and golf, cycling, hiking and horse riding inland, you won't know whether to pick up a board or a whip. If binoculars are more your thing, Andaluc a is also great bird-watching country.  When watching is active enough, there's football, the national sport, and of course bullfighting. The ritual and spectacle of this bloody battle is guaranteed to get your heart racing. To be sure of catching a bullfight, visit the region between Easter and October. And if you go, be sure to cheer for the poor old bull.  
europe_andalucia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Don't be put off by the high-rise hotels and apartment blocks that mark the Costa del Sol: M laga is a vibrant, Spanish city with a real southern port atmosphere. It's the second largest city in Andaluc a and first stop in the region for many. With pretty old streets, leafy boulevards and lush gardens the city is a lovely place to explore.  A walk along the main boulevard, Alameda Principal, will take in the elegant 18th-century Palacio de la Aduana (Customs House), the early 20th-century Antiguo Correos (Old Post Office) and the stunning 20th-century neo-baroque City Hall. For earlier history check out the baroque/Gothic/Renaissance cathedral, built on the site of the former main mosque. It's called La Manquita (the One-Armed), as the southern tower was never completed. Alcazaba was the palace-fortress of M laga's Muslim governors. With two rings of walls, numerous defensive towers and staggered entrances, it's an impressive sight. You can wander around the parts that have been restored.  Picasso was born in M laga, and the brand spanking new Museo Picasso (Picasso Museum) is due to open in 2002. Until then, visitors can check out the Casa Natal de Picasso, a research centre that holds temporary exhibitions.  
europe_andalucia_environment.html:  Environment  Andaluc a looks a bit like a Portugal-sized horizontal sausage at the bottom of Spain. It's 550km (340mi) from east to west and between 90km (56mi) and 250km (155mi) from north to south. The coastline is shared between the Atlantic and the Mediterranean with the seas joining at the bottom in the Strait of Gibraltar. Tarifa, continental Europe's southernmost town, is only 15km (9mi) from Africa. Andaluc a is divided into eight provinces (Huelva, Seville, C rdoba, Jaen, C diz, M laga, Granada and Almer a) and four geographical areas: the Sierra Morena, the Guadalquivir valley, the mountains and the coastal plain.  A relative absence of industry and archaic agriculture have left Andaluc a with a fairly clean environment. The leakage of poisonous mining wastes in 1998 - which caused damage to areas around the Parque Nacional de Donama in western Andaluc a - was a rare blip. Almost two-thirds of Spain's natural parks are in Andaluc a. The region has over 90 protected areas, bursting with flora and fauna. There are 5000 species of plants, of which 150 are endemic to the mountainous areas. Wildlife-spotters can spy wolves, ibex, Pardel lynx, and various nocturnal species including the genet, wild boar and badger. Gibraltar is famous for its colony of Barbary macaques - the only wild monkeys in Europe. Andaluc a becomes a round-the-clock butterfly farm from spring to autumn. It's also home to 13 indigenous species of birds of prey and several summer visitors: look out for the rare black vulture (Europe's largest bird) and the Spanish imperial eagle. The vast humid areas on the Atlantic coast are popular with water birds.  
europe_andalucia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Health Risks:Sunstroke, dehydration and mosquito bitesTime: GMT/UTC plus one hour (plus two hours in summer)Electricity: 220 volts, 50 Hz AC (125 volts/110 Hz in some places) When to Go  Andaluc a is a year-round holiday destination, although the weather is a bit unpredictable between November and February. The best months to visit are April through June, September and October, when the temperatures are mild and the countryside most colourful. Although July and August have the most festivals, they are also the stickiest (up to 45 C/113 F inland) and most expensive.  While the coastal climate is temperate, inland the winters are fierce and summers scorching. In July and August thermometers can hit a sweltering 36 C (97 F) in Seville and C rdoba. From December to February, top temperatures hover around 16 C (60 F) on the coast and 13 C (55 F) in Granada, where nights are close to freezing. Powerful winds come off the Atlantic, and the east of the region is dryer than the west. The strongest winds pummel Tarifa.     Events  Numerous festivals year-round allow Andalucians to indulge their love of colour, crowds, music, historical plays and general showing off. February and March are carnival time throughout the region (the wildest festivities take place in C diz).  The week leading up to Easter, Semana Santa, sees elaborate celebrations in all the big cities, while the Feria de Abril in April is a week-long party in Seville. In early May the Feria del Caballo (Horse Festival) in Jerez is an equestrian extravaganza, while flamenco is celebrated at the Potage Gitano in Utrera. The Feria de M laga in August is the pinacle of all the summer fairs.  For a spot of history, September's Moros y Cristianos in V lor, Granada, offers a re-enactment of the 1568 Muslim rebellion against the Christians. Jerez de la Frontera's Fiestas de Oto o celebrate the grape harvests with horse races, parades and flamenco dancing from mid-September to mid-October.    
europe_andalucia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  About an hour inland from the Costa del Sol, the stunning town of Ronda straddles the 100m-deep (328ft) El Tajo gorge, with the old Muslim town (La Ciudad) and the newer town (El Mercadillo) connected by three bridges. One of them, the magnificent Puente Nuevo (New Bridge), is 200 years old. The steep cliffs and views of the stunning Serran a de Ronda make for a striking setting, and the historic town attracts many day-trippers from the coast. If you want to stay, most hotels and restaurants are in the newer town.  There's a lot to see within Ronda. Visitors can act macho in one of the oldest bullrings in Spain, Plaza de Toros (opened in 1785), and check out red flags and costumes in the Museo Taurino. The Palacio de Mondrag n, once home to Fernando and Isabel, has a superb Islamic courtyard with clifftop garden. Those feeling energetic can climb down La Mina, 200 steps cut into the side of the cliff (don't forget - you have to come up again).  
europe_andorra_activities.html:  Activities  Andorra has the finest inexpensive skiing and snowboarding in the Pyrenees. Pas de la Casa-Grau Roig and Soldeu-El Tarter are the best resorts based on size, elevation and number of lifts, but they are also more expensive than Andorra's smaller ones. The ski season usually lasts from December to March, depending on snow conditions. Major Andorran resorts use snow-making machines on favoured runs.  The tranquillity of Andorra's beautiful, relatively unspoiled back country makes for some great hiking. The north-westerly parish of Ordino has especially good trails. The GR11 trail, which traverses the Pyrenees from the Mediterranean to the Atlantic, passes through the southern part of Andorra. Hikers can sleep for free in the numerous refugis (shelters) along the major trails.   Mountain bikes can be rented at the larger ski areas during the dry months, and hang-gliders are popular at the Soldeu-El Tarter ski area in Canillo parish.  
europe_andorra_attractions.html:  Attractions  Andorra la Vella, the capital of the principality and its largest town, sits at an elevation of just over 1000m (3280ft). It's surrounded by mountains up to 2400m (7870ft) high. These days, the town itself is given over almost entirely to the retailing of duty-free electronics and luxury goods, and it's more likely to recall the clang and clatter of a bustling Asian marketplace than it is the grace and elegance of Europe's grand old capitals. Happily, not all the vestiges of its 1100 year history have succumbed to the jackhammer.  The Barri Antic (Old Quarter) was the heart of Andorra la Vella when it was little more than a small Pyrenean village. The narrow cobblestone streets are still lined with storybookish stone houses. The pride of the Barri Antic is the Casa de la Vall (House of the Valley), which has served as Andorra's parliament building since 1702. The three storey stone structure was built in 1580 as the private home of a wealthy family; the Andorran coat-of-arms over the door dates from 1761. Downstairs is the Sala de la Justicia, the only courtroom in the whole country. Upstairs is the Sala del Consell, where the parliament still convenes. The Set Panys (Chest of the Seven Locks) once held Andorra's most important documents and could only be opened if one key-bearing representative from each of the parishes was present.  Cultural events take place at Pla a la Poble, a large public square that is bordered by Andorra la Vella's theatre and music academy. It's also a popular gathering spot for locals in the evening.  
europe_andorra_environment.html:  Environment  Situated on the southern slopes of the Pyrenees, tiny Andorra measures just 25km (16mi) north to south and 30km (20mi) east to west. Geographically speaking, it's little more than a bump on the border between France and Spain, sharing its 125km (75mi) of borderlands roughly equally between the two. By road, Andorra is about 180km (110mi) from Toulouse, 225km (140mi) from Barcelona, 465 km (290mi) from Nice, 855km (530mi) from Madrid and 885km (550mi) from Paris.  The capital, Andorra la Vella, is south-west of the country's centre at the confluence of the Gran Valira, the Valira del Oriente and the Valira del Norte rivers. Most of the country's 40 or so towns and hamlets - some with just a few dozen people - sit in a group of mountain valleys whose streams join to form the Gran Valira, the country's main river. Pic de Coma Pedrosa on the Spanish border in north-western Andorra is the principality's highest point at 2942m (9650ft), while La Farga de Moles on the south-western Spanish frontier is the lowest at 838m (2750ft).  Andorra enjoys a temperate climate, with snowy winters and warm summers. The country's mountain peaks often remain snowcapped until July.  
europe_andorra_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: None requiredHealth risks: noneTime:GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity: 125V or 220V, both at 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The ski season tends to begin around December and last through March, though many resorts buffer nature's contributions with manmade snow that prolongs the season well into springtime. Hiking season begins when the snowfall lets up and continues through until October. Andorra's village festivals take place between July and September. Hotels are at their fullest in July and August and from December to March.     Events  Many Andorran towns and hamlets celebrate their heritage with a 'village festival', when locals gather to enjoy music, dancing, wine and feasts. Nearly all of these fall between July and September. Andorra la Vella's three day festival period begins on the first Saturday in August. Mare de Deu de Meritxell, the national festival of the Virgin Mary, is celebrated on 8 September with a pilgrimage to Meritxell, 7km (4mi) northeast of Andorra la Vella.    
europe_andorra_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The hamlet of Llorts (pop 100) is set amidst fields of tobacco and backed by near-pristine mountains. It's one of the most untouched places in the whole country and is great for hiking. There's a popular 3.5 hour walk up the valley west of town along the de l'Angonella river, which leads to the Estanys de l'Angonella, a group of lakes. From slightly north of the village of El Serrat, about 3km (2mi) up the valley from Llorts, a secondary road leads to the Borda de Sorteny mountain shelter at 1970m (6460ft). From there, a trail continues on to a lake, Estany de l'Estany, and a 2915m (9560ft) mountain known as Pic de l'Estany. The Esglesia de Sant Mart, a tiny Romanesque church in La Cortinada, 2km (1mi) south of Llorts, has 12th century frescoes in remarkably good condition. Buses from Andorra la Vella make the 16km (10mi) run to Llorts and El Serrat daily; others make the 6km (4mi) trip from Ordino.  
europe_antwerp_activities.html:  Activities  As far as physical exercise in Antwerp goes, you just can't beat walking. Go for a long exploratory totter across the cobblestones of the city's main people-only thoroughfares, keeping an eye out for the shoe-soiling aftermath of four-legged pedestrians. Antwerp also has a number of good cycling paths, many of them paved red and only infrequently blockaded by skyline-absorbed tourists. From mid to late-December (admittedly a very small window of opportunity), an open-air ice-skating rink sets itself up in the Grote Markt.  Shopaholics will love Antwerp for the up-to-the-second designer wear available from local and international talents in the fashion quarter, the district just south of the centre, which is loosely bound by Nationalestraat, Lombaardvest, Huidevettersstraat and Schuttershofstraat. Other local must-buys include antiques from the snooty emporiums lining the streets to the immediate southeast of the fashion quarter (for example, Leopoldstraat and Komedieplaats), something to rot the teeth with from one of the city's outstanding chocolatiers, and a wristful of diamonds and gold jewellery from the traders in Antwerp's diamond quarter, located south of Centraal Station mainly along Pelikaanstraat and Hoveniersstraat.  
europe_antwerp_attractions.html:  Attractions  This lopsided market 'square' (more of a truncated triangle), reserved for pedestrians and bordered by some marvellous Renaissance-style buildings, is not only the social heart of the old city centre but of Antwerp itself. Two sides of the square are dominated by the facades of some towering guildhalls, most of them constructed in the 19th century. These buildings were the headquarters of medieval Belgium's guilds, organisations that ostensibly represented groups of craftsmen (cloth-makers, tanners and so on) in matters of trade, but which coincidentally also helped increase the economic and political influence of wealthy, monopolising families.  The most expansive bit of Renaissance architecture on Grote Markt is the Stadhuis, or city hall, a building taking up almost the entire western side of the square. Built in 1565, the structure decided a Gothic look didn't suit it and opted for a mixed Flemish-and-Italian appearance that includes a statue-topped roofline. Near the Stadhuis' entryway is sculptor Constantin Meunier's Bag Bearer statue, a 19th-century bronze tribute to Antwerp's dock workers, while next door is the Etnografisch Museum (Ethnographic Museum), a roomy collection of worldly artefacts that includes tribal statues on long-term loan from the Congo (an enormous chunk of central Africa that was a Belgian colony until 1960) and tribal poles from the Indonesian province of Irian Jaya.  The centrepiece of the old marketplace is the unflinchingly baroque Brabo Fountain, a large above-ground pond containing an 1887 sculpture that relates the legend (as opposed to the likely facts) of the naming of Antwerp. This legend has it that a river-dwelling giant who demanded a toll from passing shipmasters (or, alternatively, one of their hands if they refused) was slain by a Roman warrior called Silvius Brabo, who capped off a good day at the office by slicing off the giant's hand and throwing it in the Scheldt - hand werpen (hand throwing) apparently became the Flemish moniker Antwerpen.  
europe_antwerp_facts.html:  When to Go  To improve the probability of decent weather, visit Antwerp between May and September. There's an obvious trade-off in that this is the period when most other tourists will arrive and try to snatch the best accommodation from under your Euro-stacked billfold, but due to Antwerp's surprisingly low profile, you won't encounter as many visitors here as typically pound the streets elsewhere in Belgium in places like Brussels or Bruges.  November to March sees the crappiest weather descend on the city and soak it to its concrete marrow, while May to August is when the grey skies and precipitation are occasionally leavened by some of that blue stuff overhead and a bit of sunshine. The average daily minimum temperature in Antwerp over its fairly mild winter season is 3 C (32 F) and the maximum is 6 C (43 F); summer temperatures can sneak up to a luke-high 25 C (77 F), though July and August can also be the wettest months.     Events  In keeping with the rest of Belgium, Antwerp attempts to go a bit Rio during Carnival in February, though the most popular celebrations seem to occur in the town of Binche, to the southwest of Brussels. April hosts the Flanders-specific Festival van Vlaanderen, when the sound of music (classical and international, but with nary a Julie Andrews in sight) bounces off the stony interior walls of old churches and halls throughout the northern region. The city's strong fashion community gets to slink through a three-day catwalk to show off their new designs during June's Antwerp Fashion Show.  Several public holidays put a welcome dent in working weeks throughout July, including the Festival of the Flemish Community (11 July) and Belgium National Day (21 July). July is also music-appreciation month in Flanders: one of the biggest raves in Europe, 10 Days Off, sparks a mid-month mass of arm waving, swaying and bottled-water drinking in the city of Ghent, while the five-day Sfinks World Music Festival takes place at the end of the month at Boechout. Antwerp jazzes itself up for the week-long, biennial Jazz Middelheim in August (next held in 2003) and shows even more of its sartorial side during the avant-garde Antwerp Fashion Week in mid-September.    
europe_antwerp_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Located 2km (1.25mi) southeast of Centraal Station and snuggled up against the 'Ring', the busy motorway that angles around the eastern edge of the city, is the architecturally sublime neighbourhood of Zurenborg. Chosen by Antwerp's wealthiest residents a century ago as the place where they would feverishly embrace (and also compete with) the then-current Art-Nouveau craze, the streets at the heart of this district yield a breathtaking vista of decorative constructions. The showcase thoroughfare is Cogels-Osylei, where intricate Art-Nouveau and gaudy baroque facades impatiently shoulder neo-classical columns and neo-Renaissance symmetry; all of the structures were built between 1894 and 1914.  Hanging around the roundabout on Cogels-Osylei are the chateaux-imitating Wiltte Paleizen (White Palaces), while Art-Nouveau dominates the frontages of the Huize Zonnebloem (Sunflower House) and De Morgenster (Morning Star) elsewhere on the street. On nearby Waterloostraat are the wonderful mosaic motifs of De Vier Seizoenen (The Four Seasons) and the confidently named Les Mouettes (The Dumb). Hidden on the smaller streets just beyond Waterloostraat are other architectural finds like the neo-classical Euterpia House and the leering wooden figures occupying Twaalf Duivels (Twelve Devils). Catch tram No 11 from the centre and let it run you along Cogels-Osylei.  
europe_armenia_activities.html:  Activities  You can take an art tour with the Artist's Union, or if architecture and urban design are your thing, the Yerevan Institute for Architecture arranges tours. For cavers and outdoorsy types, the Armenian Speleological Society takes guided hikes, caving and mountain expeditions. They'll arrange excursions up to one month long, from easy walking to the toughest terrain over the most spectacular scenery in Armenia. Cycling is also an option, but it is largely unorganised and you'd be wise to bring spare parts with you. The country is overflowing with religious buildings, and you can spend months easily enough trying to see them all and not managing.  
europe_armenia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Yerevan is one of the oldest continuously inhabited settlements in the world, and has no fewer than 20 museums. Central Yerevan is a bowl ringed by hills on three sides, sloping gently from the north-east toward Mt Ararat in Turkey to the south-west. The central streets are a skewed grid, focused on the grand Republic Square (formerly Lenin Square, which used to host a statue of the man himself). On Republic Square are the State Historical Museum, the central post office, Hotel Armenia, and plenty of shops and foreign banks such as Midland Armenia and Milat. During commemorations and anniversaries like New Year, Republic Square becomes crowded as ceremonies and festivities take over. Armenia's armed forces strut their stuff in Republic Square on Independence Day. The main streets, and where the most important facilities are, are Ulitsa Abovyana and Ulitsa Machtots (formerly prospekt Lenina).  A semi-circle of parkland rings the town's eastern edge, and an array of impressive monuments, buildings and statues grace the streets. They include a massive statue of the mounted Vardan Mamikonyan, who led the Christian Armenian forces against the Zoroastrian Persians; Sasuntsi Davit (David of Sasoun, again on horseback), the symbol of Armenian epic glory; the breathtaking Erebuni Museum; and the Memorial Monument of Armenian Genocide, dedicated to the 1.5 million victims of the Turkish genocidal campaign of 1915. The splendid Opera House received the Grande Prix award of architectural design in 1937, and today it houses Khachaturian Hall, home to the Armenian Philharmonic Orchestra.  The Komitas Chamber Music Hall unfortunately bears traces of the 'Soviet Brutal' architecture school, but is nevertheless one of the finest performance halls in the country. Home to the Komitas Quartet, it is named after Armenian composer and clergyman who recorded Armenian folk songs and helped preserve the tradition. The Matendadaran is a treasure trove of Armenian culture, housing for study and preservation more than 12,000 ancient Armenian texts and illuminated, hand written books and manuscripts from the 9th century onwards.  There are only a handful of hotels in Yerevan, but they're mostly central and easy to get to. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union and the freeing up of the economy, smaller guest houses and pensions have begun to spring up around the capital. There's something very Parisian about the way people meet and linger on the streets and get dressed up to eat or drink at Yerevan's pavement cafes, most of which are easy to find. Some even have menus in English.  
europe_armenia_environment.html:  Environment  Smaller than Belgium, Armenia sits on an isthmus of land between the Black and the Caspian seas, landlocked between Iran to the south-east, Turkey along the south-western corner, Georgia up north and Azerbaijan on the eastern border. The land rises in the north to form the Little Caucasus mountain range, ( Maly Kavkaz), and arid flatlands creep southwards into Turkey and Iran. Only 10% of the country lies below 1000m (3280ft), and its highest point is the 4090m (13,415ft) Mt Aragats. The Araks River forms most of Armenia's border with Iran and part of the border with Turkey. You can travel from semi-desert foothills to alpine country within a few kilometres, and the fertile Ararat Valley produces most of the country's agricultural wealth.  Armenian wildlife includes the tur (wild goat), the mouflon (a wild sheep), the chamois (an antelope-like goat) and a fabulous array of wildflowers during spring and summer. The autumn colours in the forests around Lake Sevan are glorious. Unfortunately, over one third of the lake, the country's only fresh water reservoir, has been drained for hydropower, threatening water supplies. Azerbaijan's energy blockade has led to massive deforestation as citizens have scavenged and cut down trees for firewood. Forests and woodlands cover a little over a tenth of Armenia, arid land about 18%, and one-third is pasture.  The country is protected from the worst of Russia's harsh winters by the Northern Caucasus Mountains, and consequently much of its weather blows in from Persia and Syria. November to April/May is the wettest season, but Armenia does not get as much rain as some of its neighbours. The mountains in the south are usually covered with snow during winter, but lower areas like the Ararat Valley often remain warm, (and very hot in summer). The south is sub-tropical.  
europe_armenia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: You only need a valid passport and an onward ticket to be granted a visa for three or four weeks upon arrival.Health risks: Hepatitis, bacterial infection, land mines around Stepanakert (Nagorno-Karabakh)Time: GMT/UTC + 3 hoursElectricity: 220 volts, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Autumn (September-October) is probably the most beautiful season, with balmy days, crisp nights and beautiful colours floating around on the air. There's no peak travel season so you won't be competing with hordes of tourists for a room at any time of year. If you want to avoid winter's chill, any time from about May to October is fine. If you like sliding down the icy slopes with skis on then Armenia has excellent resorts, and at lower prices than what you'd pay in Europe. January and February is the time for skiing.     Events  Armenians make the most of any opportunity to celebrate, and hold concerts, recitals and traditional dance and music performances year-round. The New Year is the largest holiday of the year, where people exchange gifts and houses are opened to walk-in guests. Motherhood and Beauty Day is celebrated on 7 April, and Easter, in March/April begins with the cracking of boiled eggs dyed brown. The one who cracks another's egg without cracking their own gets their wish. Religious celebrations begin on Good Friday and last throughout the weekend. The Armenian Orthodox Church is the only ancient church not to celebrate Christmas.  The heroes of WW II come out in force on Victory Day (9 May), and stroll through the towns. They are still revered for their sacrifices, and the tradition continues of smaller children giving them flowers and a kiss, with older children offering shots of vodka and konyak. Most towns have a cultural and music festival to accompany the beginning of spring, and nearly every region has a series of traditional and modern festivals throughout summer. In June, the unsuspecting get doused by children until the adults take revenge and join in on Water Day. Sevan Lake hosts weekend celebrations and concerts over summer, and most towns with outdoor stages host traditional Armenian dancing and music, with crafts and food. The town of Hrazdan hosts an annual autumn festival, called Voski Ashun, with concerts, traditional dancing and music in October, and the cultural season begins in Yerevan with the harvest and the approach of winter. Vernisage Art Park in Yerevan hosts spontaneous concerts and the occasional impromptu dance recital on weekends throughout the year.    
europe_armenia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The hill resort of Dilizhan is the source of much of Armenia's mineral water, and the Regional Museum at ulitsa Myasnikyana, the main street, is worth a visit. The many furniture and carpet factories in Dilizhan today make great shopping, and you can tour the ruins of two 13th-century monasteries (Matosavank and Djukhtakvank) facing each other on opposite sides of a ravine. Armenians say that heaven must be like Dilizhan, and while that may be an exaggeration, it is a beautiful mountainous area with woods and springs. Agartsin Gorge and the Agartsin Monastery (which is 1000 years old) are particularly worth visiting in autumn. The monastery was probably the most important medieval Armenian cultural centre, and is a classic of Armenian architecture. A spa centre is nearby at Arzni. Dilizhan lies beyond the 2114m (6934ft) Sevan Pass, and is 120km (74.4mi) north-east by bus from Yerevan.  
europe_athens_activities.html:  Activities  There are a variety of activities in Athens to keep your fitness and fun going. There are a number of swimming beaches to cool down at; the closest is Alimo, while the best is probably Vouliagmeni. Hotel pools are the only other swimming option in Athens. Diving enthusiasts should know that their sport is highly restricted to protect antiquities. Numerous agencies offer charters and sailing trips, and a few provide classes. On dry land, tennis and of course golfcan be played at Glyfada Golf Club, among other places. Tenpin bowling is also on offer at various places. The nearest ski slopes are on Mt Parnassos, three hours northwest of the city. The season lasts from mid-December to March or April. Athens is a great city for walks, and most of the city's hills are crisscrossed by trails. Folk-dancing workshops for amateurs are held in July and August - check local English-language newspapers for details.  
europe_athens_attractions.html:  Attractions  No trip to Athens would be complete without a visit to the Acropolis. It is the most important ancient monument in the western world. Inspiring as the monuments are, though, they are but faded remnants of Pericles' city - a city of temples with colossal buildings, lavishly coloured and gilded, and of gargantuan statues, some of bronze, others of marble plated with gold and encrusted with precious stones.  The Propylaia, which formed the towering entrance to the Acropolis in ancient times, boasts an architectural brilliance ranking with that of the Parthenon. The Parthenon, however, is unsurpassed in its grace and harmony. It is the largest Doric temple ever completed in Greece, the only one built completely (apart from its wooden roof) of Pentelic marble. The Parthenon had a dual purpose - to house the giant statue of Athena commissioned by Pericles, and to serve as the treasury for the tribute money that had been moved from Delos. It was built on the site of at least four earlier temples, all dedicated to the worship of Athena. Beside the Parthenon is the Erechtheion, immediately recognisable for its much-photographed Caryatids, the six maidens who take the place of columns. The onsite Acropolis Museum houses a collection of sculptures and reliefs from the site.  
europe_athens_facts.html:  When to Go  Spring and late autumn are the best times to visit Athens. The weather is pleasantly warm, making it ideal for exploring the city on foot. Fewer tourists means less crowded sites and museums and cheaper, more plentiful hotel rooms. Winter isn't a bad time to visit, the occasional rainy day notwithstanding. Visitors in this season will discover a different city as Athenians retreat indoors; accommodation is also at its cheapest. Summer is probably the worst time to visit, particularly in July and August. The temperature can hover around 40 C (100+ F) for days on end and it's too hot to do anything after 10am. Hordes of tourists and expensive, hard-to-find hotel rooms compound things. Athenians know what to do: they abandon the city en masse in August.     Events  The Greek year is a succession of festivals and events, some of which are religioius, some cultural, others an excuse for a good knees-up, and some a combination of all three. For three weeks before the beginning of Lent, Carnival in Athens celebrates with festivities involving eating, drinking and all-round merrymaking. Easter is the most significant festival in the Greek Orthodox calendar. The candlelit procession climbing Lykavittos Hill to the Chapel of Agios Georgos is a truly impressive sight.  Cultural events rapidly roll in come summertime. Greek folk dances are performed from mid-May to September, and a nightly son et lumiere runs from April to October. But the city's biggest event is the Athen's Festival, from mid-June to the end of August. Ancient Greek drama is performed at the Theatre of Herodes Atticus - a superb setting backed by the floodlit Acropolis. Plays run at other venues as well, and there are various classical music concerts and dance performances during the fest.   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 6 January - Epiphany February - First Sunday in Lent 25 March - Greek Independence Day March/April - Good Friday March/April - (Orthodox) Easter Sunday 1 May - Spring Festival/Labour Day 15 August - Feast of the Assumption 28 October - Ohi Day 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - St Stephen's Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to AthensTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_athens_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Stretching both east and west of Plateia Monastirakiou, the flea market is Athens at its noisiest, most colourful and chaotic. Although not what it used to be, it still has a distinctly festive atmosphere and is a must-see for visitors. It teems with shops, restaurants and cafes, and street vendors selling nuts, coconut sticks, fruit, treasure, trash and more. Visit on Sunday morning, when the market is especially lively with all manner of things up for grabs. There's everything from clocks to condoms, trombones to gramophones, tyres to telephones, giant evil eyes to jelly-baby clones. It's the place to test your haggling skills.  
europe_austria_activities.html:  Activities  All Austrians seem able to ski effortlessly which is a real pain if you're a beginner trying to look cool on the slopes. Vorarlberg and Tirol are the most popular areas, but there is also skiing in Salzburg province, Upper Austria and Carinthia. Kitzbühel and Lech are the jet-set resorts. Those with less money, a distaste for crowds and fine leg definition may find cross-country skiing more rewarding. This takes place just about anywhere where there's sufficient snow and a shortage of buildings.  There are thousands of km of well-signposted hiking trails to explore in the Alps. The Kaisergebirge mountains in northern Tirol are a favourite with mountaineers, though make sure you never climb on your own or without proper equipment and consult locals about weather conditions and avalanche warnings. Paragliding and hang-gliding are both popular, and you can hire gear and get tuition at most ski resorts. Ballooning is also taking off (so to speak), despite the high costs. The lakes in Salzkammergut and Carinthia offer water-skiing, sailing and windsurfing. River cruises on the Danube are a must, especially for Strauss lovers.  
europe_austria_attractions.html:  Attractions  Vienna is the glorious legacy of the Habsburg dynasty, which controlled much of Europe for over 600 years. Although it's full of architectural gems and has an impressive musical ancestry, a few years ago the city seemed to be the exclusive preserve of genteel old ladies whiling away their autumn years sipping coffee in Konditorei. Thankfully, in recent years, Vienna has regained its panache and verve, and has a spanking new role as Austria's ambassador in the united club of Europe. Tradition, culture and vitality now make a heady combination that even listening to the Blue Danube thirty or forty times a day can't seem to ruin.  The city's golden years as the cultural centre of Europe were in the 18th and 19th centuries. Most of the majestic architecture you see today is due to the efforts of Emperor Franz Joseph I, who had deep enough pockets to match his ambitious plans for a city that would reflect the power of the Habsburgs. Franz tore down a few redundant fortifications and exercise grounds surrounding the Innere Stadt and laid out the Ringstrasse between 1858 and 1865. In the decade that followed most of the impressive edifices which line this circuit began to be constructed.  The Hofburg (Imperial Palace) nearby was the home of the Habsburgs and is a monumental repository of Austria's cultural heritage. It includes the 14th-century Augustinian Church, the opulent Imperial Apartments, the Royal Chapel (where the Vienna Boy's Choir sings at Sunday mass), the Imperial Treasury (including religious relics such as one of the nails from the Crucifixion and one of the thorns from Christ's crown), the National Library, the Baroque Prunksaal hall and the fascinating Collection of Old Musical Instruments.  If you still haven't quenched your cultural thirst, the Museum of Fine Arts shows off the artwork funnelled back to Vienna by the Habsburgs. The museum is a delightful no-expense-spared work of art itself, and includes unrivalled collections of paintings by Rubens and Peter Brueghel the Elder. Don't even think about checking out everything in a single visit and try not to get neck strain staring at the superbly decorated ceilings. The Sigmund Freud Museum in the apartments where Siggi worked and lived contains his furniture, possessions, documents and photographs. Quite what the great man wanted with that terracotta male genitalia (exhibit 24) is a bit of a worry though.  Outside the city centre is the splendid Baroque Belvedere Palace built for Prince Eugene of Savoy. The upper palace is now home to the Austrian Gallery, which has among its exhibits Gustav Klimt's famous painting The Kiss. The city's other famous Baroque palace is the Schönbrunn Palace, once home to Maria Theresa, and later to Napoleon. It has an interior kitted out with Rococo excesses and contains the Mirror Room where Mozart played his first royal concert and the Napoleon Room, which strangely contains a stuffed crested lark.  Accommodation can be a nightmare for low budget travellers - especially at Easter, Christmas and between June and September - so make reservations as far ahead as possible. Staying within the Innere Stadt is convenient for sightseeing but there are no hostels in this elegant area so it ain't cheap. Hotels and pensions between the Ring and the Gürtel are better value. The area north-west of the city centre, near the university, has numerous inexpensive restaurants. The best area for a night on the town is around Ruprechtsplatz, Seitenstettengasse, Rabensteig and Salzgries in the central zone near the Danube Canal. This area has been dubbed the 'Bermuda Triangle' because drinkers disappear into its numerous pubs and clubs and become lost to the outside world.  
europe_austria_environment.html:  Environment  Austria is a pipe-shaped, landlocked country lying in the bosom of Europe. It extends 560km from east to west, 280km north to south, and is surrounded by Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Italy and Switzerland. The Alps occupy the southern and western portions of the country, and peak at the Grossglockner's 3797-metre summit. The upland forests of the Bohemian Massif run north to the Czech border, while the Danube Valley and the fertile lowlands of the east provide the bulk of Austria's arable land. There are numerous lakes in Carinthia and the Salzkammergut region; Lower Austria, Burgenland and Styria are the most important plonk-growing regions.  Nearly half of Austria is forested, mainly with oak and beech at low altitudes; at higher elevations conifers predominate. Trees yield to Alpine meadows at just over 2000m and orchids, edelweiss and poppies become quite common. In Alpine regions, fauna includes ibex (a mountain goat with huge curved horns), chamois (horned antelope) and marmots (cute little furry creatures unrelated to Marmite).  Austria's tourist calendar has two main seasons: the summer season runs from May to October and the winter ski season runs from December to April. Most of Austria has a moderate central European climate though the eastern part of the country is blessed with a Continental Pannonian climate, which sounds impressive but really only means that average temperatures in July are above 19 degrees Celsius and annual rainfall is less than 80 cm. Be prepared for a range of temperatures dependent on altitude, but unless you're on top of the Grossglockner you can probably count on temps between 20 and 25 degrees Celsius in summer, one and four degrees Celsius in winter, and eight and 15 degrees Celsius in spring and autumn. Be aware that the sun is intense at high altitudes and ski-goggle tan lines look very silly on those who do not take precautions.  
europe_austria_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: EU, US, Canadian, Australian and New Zealand citizens do not require visas for stays of up to three months. Nationals of African and Arabic countries generally require a visa - also valid for up to three months.Health risks: Altitude sickness, hypothermia and sunburnTime: GMT/UTC +1Electricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 19 million visitors a year When to Go  Summer sightseeing and winter sports make Austria a year-round destination. The summer high season is in July and August, when crowds will be bigger and prices higher. It can be uncomfortably hot in the cities over summer and many famous institutions close down. Consequently, June and September are also busy months. During winter you'll find things less crowded in the cities and the hotel prices lower (except over Christmas and Easter). Winter sports are in full swing from mid-December to late March with the high season over Christmas, New Year and February. Alpine resorts are very quiet from late April to late May and in November. Spring in the Alps is in June, when the Alpine flowers start coating the mountains with colour.     Events  The cycle of music festivals is unceasing. In January, New Year concerts consist of lavish balls in Vienna. February brings Fasching (Carnival) which celebrates the return of spring with masked processions and dances. Corpus Christi (the second Thursday after Whitsun) is heralded with more carnivals, some held on lakes in the Salzkammergut. The Vienna International Festival (from mid-May to mid-June) has a wide-ranging programme of arts and is considered the highlight of the year. Midsummer night's celebrations on 21 June light up the sky with magnificent bonfires. The Salzburg International Festival takes place in late-July and August and includes plenty of music by the city's favourite son, Mozart. National Day on 26 October involves lots of patriotic flag-waving. St Nicholas Day, on 5 December, marks the beginning of the Christmas season with parades.    
europe_austria_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Rust is known chiefly for its unlikely combination of storks and wine. Its name is derived from the German word for elm tree and has, we assure you, nothing to do with the additives in its plonk. It's a prosperous town which has been producing wine for centuries and making a damn good living from it if its attractive burghers' houses are anything to go by. Storks descend on Rust from the end of March, rear their young, then fly off in late August to go paddling. Many homes in the town centre have a metal platform on the roof to entice storks to build a nest there. Stork nests are recognisable by the dangling bird legs hanging over the sides.  
europe_azerbaijan_activities.html:  Activities  You can get in some fine hiking in the parks around Baku and on the Apsheron Peninsula. Taking the waters - soaking in medicinal mud, oil and hotsprings - is a popular pastime in Azerbaijan. Some of the best spas are in Kuba, Ganja-Naftalan and Nakhchivan. Over 350 species make for fine birdwatching, especially in the southeast lowlands south of Lenkoran.  
europe_azerbaijan_attractions.html:  Attractions  About a fifth of Azerbaijan's population lives in the capital, the biggest metropolis in Transcaucasia. This handsome city is built around a perfect harbour, Baku Bay, a notch in the underside of the Apsheron Peninsula. Baku and the 70km (45mi) long peninsula enjoy sunny and surprisingly arid weather, spoiled now and then by the gale-force coastal winds called khazri.  Baku goes back - back to the Bronze Age and beyond. The heart of the historic city is Ichari Shahar (the Inner City, or Old Town). This is one of the oldest continuously inhabited spots in the country - and in the Middle East. Archaeological digs have revealed Bronze Age burial chambers. When the Greeks and Romans wrote about Baku, they were writing about the Inner City. This is the most popular area of the city, a maze of alleys, dead ends and caravanserais sometimes called the 'Acropolis of Baku.' One of the most impressive sights is the Maiden's Tower, which dates to the 12th century. This key-shaped building has walls 5m (15ft) thick, and you can climb eight stories to the top for a view of the city and the bay. There are a few exhibits inside.  Another outstanding site in the Inner City is the Palace of the Shirvan Shahs, dating from the 15th century, when the shahs moved their capital to Baku from Shamakhy. The domes and arches, mosaics and stonework are in beautiful shape, and there are a number of buildings to explore, including a mausoleum, a Turkish bath and the divan-khana or law courts. The complex is also the occasional venue for folk-dance performances.  The most impressive museum is the Museum of Carpets & Applied Art in the old Lenin Museum. It has a brilliant display of woven and knotted Azerbaijani carpets, plus jewellery, embroidery, metalwork and carved wood. The Azerbaijani History Museum, a few blocks north-east of the Inner City, features an archaeology section with Stone Age petroglyphs and other relics from the site at Gobustan.  The subway is cheap but gets ridiculously crowded during rush hours. A 1995 fire that killed 300 people hasn't increased anyone's confidence in its safety, either. Taxis are a better bet; be sure to get one with a meter.  
europe_azerbaijan_environment.html:  Environment  Azerbaijan is a small country located on the western shore of the Caspian Sea in the south-eastern part of the Greater Caucasus Mountains. The Lesser Caucasus stretch along the western border. Russia is on its north-eastern border, Georgia on the north-west; Armenia borders it to the west, Iran to the south and there's a 10km border with Turkey in the south-west. The Aras River runs along the southern border, flowing into the Kura River, which runs from the north-western mountains to the south-eastern coast, where it empties into the Caspian Sea.  A 5500 sq km (2125 sq mi) section of Azerbaijan called the Nakhichevan Autonomous Republic lies to west, separated from the main part of the country by about 50km (30mi) of Armenia. Another section, the Autonomous Oblast of Nagorno-Karabakh, lies in the south-western corner of Azerbaijan proper but has proclaimed itself an independent republic following a war with Armenia (the population of Karabakh is now mostly Armenian) and remains under Armenian control, as does much of the territory immediately surrounding it. A narrow corridor centred on the town of Lachin provides a bridge between Karabakh and Armenia.  The highest point in Azerbaijan is snow-covered Mt Bazardyuzyu, at 4465m (14,645ft), in the Caucasus range. The Sheki Zakataly region, just south of the mountains, is full of rivers and hosts a dense population, including one of the oldest settlements in the region. It produces grain, fruit, tobacco and nuts. The coastal lowlands produce vegetables, fruit and grains. The country is saturated with oil and natural gas, much of which lies under the ground on the Apsheron Peninsula and off the coast on the Caspian shelf.  There are over 4000 plant species in Azerbaijan, including 200 indigenous varieties. Oak, hornbeam, beech, ash and maple forests cover the lower slopes of the mountain ranges, and orange groves carpet the southern coastal lowlands.  A large portion of the animal life is reptilian, though in the mountains, goats, deer, bear and wild boar are found. Azerbaijan has over 12,000 animal species, including 350 species of bird - 200 of which can be found in the Kizilagadj Reserve (in the Lenkoran lowlands). There are gazelles on the coastal plains and tigers and porcupines in the Talysh forests south of Lenkoran. The waters of the Caspian are lousy with sturgeon (four-fifths of the world's sturgeon are found here), along with herring, salmon and the rare pike perch.  Running the gamut of nine climatic zones, Azerbaijan's climate alternates between extremes in the northern and western mountains and pleasantly moderate along the Caspian Sea. Expect temperatures in the 20s and 30s C (70s and 80s F) through spring and summer (mid-April to October), and average temperatures of 5 to 10 C (40 to 50 F) from December to March.  
europe_azerbaijan_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are required.Health risks: Malaria, yellow fever, diphtheria, tick-borne encephalitis, hepatitis, rabies, typhoid fever, travellers' diarrhoea, land mines around Khan-Kendi (formerly Stepanakert, in Nagorno-Karabakh).Time: GMT/UTC + 4 hoursElectricity: 220 volts, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit Azerbaijan is between April and October. It's warm and dry in much of the country, though in July and August it can be scorching (up to 38 C/100 F). It's much cooler and wetter in the winter, though it rains in the foothills from spring through early fall. Bear in mind that Ramadan, the Muslim month of fasting, is not the most ideal time for non-Muslims to vist. It will start in December or November until 2002.     Events  This predominantly Muslim country celebrates most Islamic holidays, especially Ramadan, the month of daily fasting (from late December through January), and Qurban-Bayram (in April).   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 20 January - Memorial Day (commemorates the victims of the Soviet invasion of Baku in 1990) 8 March - International Women's Day 21-22 March - Novruz Bayrami (Lunar New Year) 9 May - WWII Victory Day 28 May - Republic Day 15 June - Day of National Salvation 16 June - Army and Navy Day 9 October - Armed Forces Day 18 October - Independence Day 12 November - Constitution Day 17 November - National Revival Day 31 December - World Azeri Solidarity Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to AzerbaijanTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_azerbaijan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Kuba is 165km (105mi) north of Baku. Once the capital of a small khanate in the 18th century, its chief feature these days is that it's very photogenic, especially in spring when its many orchards are in bloom. You can have a look at the town's 16th century fortress and 19th century mosques and bathhouse.  
europe_balearic_islands_activities.html:  Activities  Well, sure, nightclubbing, drinking and doing the horizontal hulu are all activities...in their own special way...but if you're thinking outdoors and legal, it's best to start off with water-based activities. Needless to say, with this much coastline anything that involves water - from sailing to using it to dilute diluting Scotch - is the way to go. Fishing is popular as is sailing and yachting with mooring fees at most of the yacht clubs being reasonabley priced. Facilities for other watersports, including water-skiing, windsurfing, parasailing and diving, are also available.  The Sport of Lawyers - golf - is available on dry land, as is tennis, but with the near-pefect weather and oodles of beautiful island scenery, hiking and cycling are never out of the picture.  
europe_balearic_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  The island of Mallorca is peppered with smaller beachside getaways, including the famous Deia and Alc dia with its Roman ruins, all of them quaint and lovely but a bit crowded during high season. If heading in the direction of Porto Cristo, get your fill of stalagtites and stalagmites at the stunningly-lit Caves of Drach. The caves contains one of the largest underground lakes in the world.  The rocky northwest coast and rugged Serra de Tramuntana mountain range make up 'the other Mallorca,' where you can lose yourself in the natural beauty of the island. One of the most typical Serra de Tramuntana village is Valldemossa, it's spectacular beauty and Gothic churches magnetic enough to attract luminaries such as Frederich Chopin and George Sand. Not far from Valldemosa is Deia, a village that has been occupied by artists, musicians and writers for nearly half a decade.  
europe_balearic_islands_environment.html:  Environment  The Balearics are made up of four major islands - Mallorca, Menorca, Ibiza and Formentera - surrounded by several small, rocky islets. Mallorca, the largest of the islands, is fringed with sparkling sandy beaches to the north and rocky coves and harbors along the south coast. The spectacular Serra de Tramuntana mountain range that makes up Mallorca's spine tops out at 1445m(4740ft)Puig Major.  Menorca was declared a Biosphere Reserve by UNESCO in 1993, and it's well worth braving the sometimes chilling tramuntana winds to visit its largely untouristed beaches, coves and ravines. Ibiza and Formentara are hot and dry, the perfect climate for drinking beer on the beach.  Luxuriating in that perfect-for-human-habitation Mediterranean climate, the Balearics enjoy a mild winter and fairly hot summer, which forces even the most reticent visitor to spend quality time along the coast. Temperatures average around 15 C (60 F) in the winter and 27 C (85 F) in the summer, keeping the temperature just about perfect for outdoor activities.  
europe_balearic_islands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US, Canadian, Australian, New Zealand and Israeli citizens are among those who may enter Spain as tourists without a visa and stay up to 90 days. EU passport holders can come and go as they please.Time: GMT/UTC plus one hourTelephone Area Code: 971Electricity: 220 volts, 50 Hz AC When to Go   Summer (June, July and August) is the silly season in the Balearics. For much of this time you'll be subject to the full tourapalooza experience - crowded beaches, higher prices and a shortage of accommodation. These annoyances are offset by the Balearic's fun-in-the-sun Mediterranean climate: most days during summer the temperature hovers around 27 C (85 F) making it perfect for developing that euro-lifestyle tan.  To avoid the crowds and save money come in May-June or September-October; the weather is still pleasant and warm but the crowds are thinner and accommodation is thicker on the ground. Winter (December, January and February) can be a peaceful time as the lack of beach weather keeps the hordes away. Even in winter, though, you're bound to get one or two days of the much-touted 300 days-out-of-the-year worth of sunshine.     Events  Among the typical festivities that are held in the different towns and villages of the Balearic Islands, one of the most important is the Fiesta of San Juan at Ciutadella around June 18, 23 and 24. The festivities of La Devallament at Pollensa (March 23), Sa Pobla (January 16 and 17) in honour of San Antonio Abad, and the Day of La Beata at Santa Margarita (September 3), are all of interest to tourists. Ibiza celebrates its festivities on the days between July 30 and August 5.    
europe_balearic_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Formentera is the getaway-from-the-getaway. Folks needing to dry out and have a little down-time away from Ibiza and its disco balls and hectic socialising, can head to the tiny island of Formentera. If you aren't too hung over or too wrung out it's a great place for short bicycle treks and long picnic lunches.  The emphasis here is definitely on 'beach'; the sea is visible from just about everywhere on the island and the edges of the island are fringed with numerous great beaches and any number of secluded bays, some of them with invisible grottos. Among the evocatively-named beaches worth vsiting are Cala Saona, Coves d'en Xeroni, Es Cal and Es Pujols.  If a good coffee is the only thing on your agenda, get to the main village of San Francesc Xavier, an attractive white-washed village with some good cafes overlooking a series of small sunny plazas.  A ferry from Ibiza is the only way to get there.  
europe_barcelona_activities.html:  Activities  There are plenty of opportunities for exercise in this healthy, sports-keen city. If you're a golfer, you'll be itching to play in Spain, one of the capitals of the game. The only moderately difficult Club de Golf Sant Cugat is welcoming. For an easy run and a few gasps of fresh sea air, use the seafront stretch from Vila Ol mpica to Barceloneta. The promenades along the shoreline are your best bet for an obstacle-free skate or blade. If the beaches don't appeal, there are dozens of pools around the city where you can swim. Port Ol mpic has a bunch of watersports clubs and facilities. Tennis players can serve up some volleys at the Barcelona Tens Ol mpic, where you can also hire gear. Barcelona isn't the best spot for casual cycling, but the tourist office can point you in the right direction if you're really determined to escape the hills, pollution and bad drivers.  
europe_barcelona_attractions.html:  Attractions  Five separate wide streets strung end to end, La Rambla (also called Las Ramblas) is a tree-lined pedestrian boulevard packed with buskers, living statues, mimes and itinerant salespeople selling everything from lottery tickets to jewellery. The noisy bird market on the second block of La Rambla is worth a stop, as is the nearby Palau de la Virreina, a grand 18th-century rococo mansion, with arts and entertainment information and a ticket office. Next door is La Rambla's most colourful market, the Mercat de la Boqueria. Just south of the Boqueria the Mosa c de Mir punctuates the pavement, with one tile signed by the artist. The next section of La Rambla boasts the Gran Teatre del Liceu, the famous 19th-century opera house. Below the Pla a Reial, La Rambla becomes decidedly seedy, with strip clubs and peep shows. La Rambla terminates at the lofty Monument a Colom (Columbus Monument) and the harbour. You can ascend the monument by lift. Just west of the monument, on Avinguda de les Drassanes, stand the Reials Drassanes (Royal Shipyards), which house the fascinating Museu Mar tim. It has more seafaring paraphernalia than you'd care to wag a sextant at - boats, models, maps, paintings, ships' figureheads and 16th-century galleys.  
europe_barcelona_facts.html:  When to Go  The combination of tourists and business travellers visiting Barcelona means hotels are busy for most of the year. Spring and early summer is the best time to be in the city. The weather is usually pleasant, the number of tourists manageable and the city humming. High summer (mid-July to late August) is asphyxiating - many locals get the hell out and leave it to the guiris (foreigners). September isn't bad; the city recovers its normal rythms, the heat eases and tourist numbers drop, but the weather can be dodgy. For real rain, hang about in October. Winter isn't especially distressing, but you will want a room with heating.     Events  Barcelona is perhaps less chronically addicted to partying than cities in the south of Spain, but it puts in a fair effort with some wild occasions dotting the calendar year-round. There's plenty of dancing and a few fancy-dress parades during the 10-day Carnaval in February/March. On April 23, the Dia de Sant Jordi, also the Day of the Book, is a local festival celebrating Catalunya's patron saint. The Berbena de Sant Joan (also known as La Nit del Foc, or Fire Night) kicks off midsummer celebrations on June 23 with drinking, dancing and fireworks. Barcelona brims with music, dance and theatre during Festival del Grec, held from late June to August, and around August 15 the Festa Major de Gracia sees the streets of Gracia decorated and full of dancing and music. The last huge hoorah of the summer is the Festes de la Merce, celebrated around September 24, which includes concerts, dancing, a swimming race across the harbour, and a correfoc (fire race). During the International Jazz Festival from late October through the end of November, the city finally cools with some jazz and blues.   Public holidays January 1 - New Year's Day January 6 - three Kings' Day March/April - Good Friday March/April - Easter Monday May 1 - Labour Day May/June - Whit Monday June 24 - Feast of St John August 15 - Feast of the Assumption September 11 - Catalan National Day October 12 - Spanish National Day November 1 - All Saints Day December 8 - Feast of the Immaculate Conception December 25 - Christmas Day December 26 - St Stephen's Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to BarcelonaTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_barcelona_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Parc Güell is where Gaud turned his hand to landscaping, with spectacular results. The park is laid out on a hill with fantastic views of the city. Huge ceramic benches, giant decorative lizards, ceramic mosaics and pavilions of contorted stone all combine into a brilliant swirl of the imagination. In the park grounds, the Sala Hip stila is a forest of 84 stone columns, originally intended as a market. Above it is a broad open space whose centrepiece is the Banc de Trenadis, a tiled bench curving sinuously around its perimeter. The spired house to its right is the Casa Museu Gaud, where Gaud lived for most of his last 20 years.  
europe_belarus_activities.html:  Activities  Nature lovers should visit the Belavezhskaja Pushcha Nature Reserve, on the western border with Poland. It's the largest area of ancient forest in Europe and has substantial herds of the once near-extinct European bison. If you've got your own car, the Blue Lakes area in the north of Belarus is renowned for its natural beauty, and is a popular camping and hiking area. The country's network of lakes and streams make for great fishing.  
europe_belarus_attractions.html:  Attractions  Almost every building in Minsk has been erected since 1944, when Minsk's recapture by the Soviet army left barely a stone standing. Minsk is probably the best example of pure soviet planning on a grand scale. It almost carries off its attempt at worker utopia: the uniformity of its monumental facades is softened by its wide streets and pleasant parks. It has a bustling, cosmopolitan atmosphere and a cleaner, brighter feel than other former Soviet cities.  Minsk's main street,  praspekt Skaryny, is a huge and hectic promenade. At the south-western end of the street, the 500m (1640ft) long ploshcha Nezalezhnastsi (Independence Square) is surrounded with government buildings and the attractive Polish Catholic Church of St Simon. The Park Janki Kupaly is a pleasant stretch of greenery bordered on 2 sides by the snaking Svislach River. You can rent a rowboat or check out the house where Russia's Communist Party held its illegal founding congress in 1898.  The Belarus National Museum of History and Culture will take you on a trip through the turbulent history of the nation, while the Belarusian State Art Museum has a collection of 17th to 20th century paintings. The Museum of the Great Patriotic War graphically displays the horrors of WWII and goes a long way towards explaining the country's apparent obsession with the war. Most grisly are the POW displays and photos of partisans being executed.  The Old Town, west of praspekt Skaryny, is home to the Baroque Cathedral of St Dukhawski. The Cathedral was once part of a Polish Bernardine convent - the former monastery buildings have been restored and now house a music academy. For a look at how Minsk used to be, travel to the east of the Svislach River, where a neighbourhood has been rebuilt in 17th and 18th century style. It's quaint and small-scale, and is scattered with cafes, bars, restaurants and gift shops. Nearby, the 1847 St Mary Magdeline Church has a pointed octagonal bell tower and a grand dome.  
europe_belarus_environment.html:  Environment  Belarus is slightly smaller than the UK and borders Russia in the north and east, Latvia and Lithuania in the north-west, Poland in the west and Ukraine in the south. It's a low-lying country, with the highest hill, Dzjarzhinskaja, reaching only 345m (1132ft). The terrain is mostly low ridges dividing broad marshy lowlands scattered with small lakes. The major river is the Dnjapro, which flows into eastern Belarus from Smolensk in Russia.  Belarus was once completely covered in forest. By the 16th century most of it had been cleared for farming, but great plots have regrown, especially in the south. The most common trees are conifer, oak, beech and silver birch. The Belavezhskaja Pushcha Nature Reserve, on the Polish border, is Europe's largest slice of primeval mixed forest and is home to a healthy population of European bison. Belarus' other nature reserves are home to elk, deer, boar, wolf, fox, squirrel, marten, hare, beaver, otter, mink and badger. Agricultural land is given over to grains and to flax (the raw material for linen): great fields of the delicate blue flax flower are a striking sight.  Belarus has a continental climate which becomes marginally more severe as you move from south-west to north-east. Average January temperatures are between -4 C and -8 C (25-18 F), and there's frost on the ground 7 to 8 months of the year. The warmest month is July, when temperatures normally reach 19 C (66 F). It's wettest in June and August, and there's snow cover from December to April.  
europe_belarus_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All foreign visitors require a visa - these are much easier to arrange outside the country than at the border.Health risks: Hepatitis A & B, typhoid, tick-borne encephalitisTime:GMT/UTC plus 2 hours (Crimea, GMT/UTC plus 3 hours)Electricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  It's always low season in Belarus, so don't fret too much about being overwhelmed by your fellow tourists. Summer is warm but wet, while winter is grey and inhumanly cold, so your best bet is probably late summer or spring.     Events  Composers gather in Minsk in January to discuss music and host a series of concerts during the National Convention of Belarusian Composers. Minsk also hosts the Expolingua international language festival in April. The Festival of Poetry, held on Lake Svityaz in June, celebrates the work of great Belarusian and Russian poets. The Belarusian Musical Autumn, held in Minsk in the last 10 days of November, is a festival of folk and classical music and dance.    
europe_belarus_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Njasvizh, 120km (75mi) south-west of Minsk, is one of the oldest towns in the country. It dates from the 13th century, but reached its zenith in the mid-16th century when its ruling merchants had it rebuilt with an advanced system of fortifications. Over the centuries, war, fire and neglect diminished the town's status, and today it's a random mix of painted wooden cottages and bland housing scattered with fine 16th century architecture.  The 16th century town hall is one of the oldest in the country - it's shabby and faded but has an interesting design. The Slutsk Gate, also built in the 16th century, was redone in Baroque style 2 centuries later. The large and sombre Farny Polish Roman Catholic Church is early Baroque style and features a splendidly proportioned facade. Beyond the church, the Radziwill Palace Fortress was designed by the Italian architect Bernardoni in the 16th century and today houses a sanitarium for cardiac and neurological patients.  
europe_belfast_activities.html:  Activities  Belfast is perfect for getting around on foot and there are several organised walking tours to choose from, taking in the city's history, pubs and sights. If you have Irish roots you might want to indulge in a little genealogical research at the Public Record Office of Northern Ireland in Balmoral Ave or General Register Office in Chichester St. The scenic coastal route heading north from Belfast is a favourite for cycling, passing through the foothills of the Antrim Mountains to the Giant's Causeway. The Lagan Weir offers one-hour boat trips and the chance to do some fishing. Other outdoor exploits to keep your cheeks rosy include Gaelic football, hurling, soccer and rugby. For indoor fun the city's nightlife has never been better, with a booming club and live-music scene. Pubs run the gamut of trad to trendy, fun to funky, and some of them are so elaborate they should be classified as museums.  
europe_belfast_attractions.html:  Attractions  Dominating Donegall Square, and indeed the city, Belfast's imposing City Hall is a neo-Renaissance monolith of Portland stone pillars, pediments and parapets. The building's facade is rigidly symmetrical once more now that the huge 'Belfast Says No' banner has gone (negating the 1985 Anglo-Irish Agreement which for the first time gave the Dublin government a consultative role in Northern Ireland's affairs), and the interior is a sombre riot of Italian marble and oak panelling. The perimeter is dotted with statuary, notably a suitably dour-looking Queen Victoria, a monument to the victims of the Titanic and a statue of Sir Edward Harland, founder of the Harland & Wolff shipyard which constructed the doomed liner.  Donegall Square is lined with fancifully ornate edifices such as the Scottish Provident Building, littered with statues of industrial icons, sphinxes, dolphins and lions' heads. The Linen Hall Library nearby was established in 1788 'to improve the mind and excite a spirit of general inquiry'. Its famed Irish and local-studies collection includes a copy of everything written about Northern Ireland politics since 1966.  
europe_belfast_facts.html:  When to Go  Belfast's open to visitors any time of year, but April-June and September are best: the weather's hopefully on form, the crowds are down, the days are longer and attractions are open.  Belfast's average temperature year-round is a relatively mild 10 C (50 F). Winter rarely sees ice and snow, but the January and February skies are interminably grey, and temperatures are a motley 4-8 C (40-45 F). July and August average 15 C (60 F), but at least the summer days are long, with true darkness not falling until 11pm. Perhaps the most defining aspect of Belfast's climate, other than its changeability, is its rainfall: February-June averages 60mm (2.3in), and things get wetter still from October to January with 95mm (4in). Don't even think about visiting without a raincoat, umbrella and warm clothes.     Events  Belfast has a well-rounded calendar of cultural events. The Belfast Music Festival gets the ball rolling in March - it's been a platform for talented Belfast youths since 1911. St Patrick's Day is celebrated with a four-day carnival leading up to 17 March. The Belfast City Summer Fest takes place in May, with classical and traditional music, community events and the Lord Mayor's Show. The Cathedral Quarter Arts Festival is also held in May, showcasing fringe-type comedy, music, theatre and street performances. Selected weekends in summer host the Belfast Folk Festival, and Ireland's largest community festival, Feile an Phobail, is held in West Belfast in August. The city's biggest cultural event is the three-week Belfast Festival at Queen's, the second-largest arts festival in the UK after Edinburgh's.    
europe_belfast_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Belfast is ringed by hills, visible from many points in the city, but none loom so large as Cave Hill (355m/1165ft). It's the best place to get your bearings and drink in some views - on a clear day you can even see Scotland lurking on the horizon. The Country Park sprawls over 300 hectares (740 acres) reaching down to Belfast Lough and is littered with ringforts, evidence of Iron Age occupation. Wolfe Tone and his United Irishmen gathered at the suitably dramatic McArt's Fort in 1795 to pledge to continue their struggle for Irish independence. Five artificial caves dating from the Neolithic era are nearby, and further down the slopes there's Belfast Castle, a Scottish Baronial confection dating from 1870 that's the venue for many a fashionable Belfast wedding. Below Cave Hill, Belfast Zoo has splendid views over Belfast Lough and as zoos go its enclosures are pretty good, in particular the sealion and penguin pools.  
europe_belgium_activities.html:  Activities  Outdoorsy types tend to head straight for the Ardennes, Belgium's year-round outdoor playground. Here you can ski in winter and in summer kayak or go hiking or mountain biking (using a velo tout terrain, or VTT) along a good network of forest tracks. Another worthy attraction are the prehistoric limestone grottoes and caves in the area (particularly around the towns of Han-sur-Lesse, Rochefort and Dinant), which offer plenty of scope for subterranean explorers.  
europe_belgium_attractions.html:  Attractions  An unpretentious mix of grand edifices and modern skyscrapers, Brussels is a modest, confident capital that many visitors find to be an acquired taste. Since it doubles as the capital of the European Union, it's packed to the rafters with bureaucrats and Eurocrats who have given the place an air of bustling efficiency without exactly festooning it with fun. The city is built along a pentagon of boulevards known as the Petit Ring. At its heart is the Grand Place, arguably Europe's most beautiful central square. Within a twenty-minute walk is much of the city's accommodation, most of it easily accessible by tram, bus or metro.  Around the Grand Place are a number of museums, architectural gems and oddities. To the south, behold the famous Manneken Pis, the statue of a boy taking a leak on a street corner. Are the Belgians taking the piss? You decide. To the north, Tintin fans should not go past the Comic Strip Centre in an Art Nouveau building designed by Horta. To the east, near the Royal Palace, the Ancient Art Museum and the Modern Art Museum complement each other brilliantly.  Brussels' dining heart is Rue des Bouchers (Butcher's Street), near the Grand Place. Here you'll find lobster, crab, mussels and fish awaiting conspicuous consumption in one terrace restaurant after another. And to think, not a sprout in sight...  
europe_belgium_environment.html:  Environment  Squeezed between the Netherlands, Germany, Luxembourg and France, Belgium is one of Europe's tiddlers. The north is flat, the south dominated by the picturesque Ardennes and the 65km North Sea coastline monopolised by resorts, except for a few patches of windswept dunes. Lower Belgium is criss-crossed by a network of canals. Seasons are mild, but the warmest months (July and August) are also the wettest.  
europe_belgium_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: EU citizens can enter on an official identity card. Travellers from Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Japan, the USA and many other countries just need a valid passport (no visa). Unless you're a citizen of a developing country, you can probably stay up to three months.Health risks: None, except the cost of medical care.Time:GMT/UTC +1 (+2 in summer)Electricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism:13 million visitors annually When to Go  You're unlikely to encounter extremes in weather during an average Belgian year. April to September is the warmest time, but be prepared for grey skies and soggy streets no matter what time of year you go. Visitors may be forgiven for assuming umbrellas and raincoats are part of the Belgian national dress.     Events  Traditional Catholic celebrations aside, Brussels' most festive months are July and August. On the first Thursday in July there's the Ommegang pageant, a huge parade of nobles dressed in historic costumes. Belgium's colourful National Day is July 21, which also marks the start of the month-long Brussels Fair.    
europe_belgium_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Sure, you may have heard about Brussels' statue of the little boy weeing, but did you know he has a sister? She can be found having a squirt alongside Brussels' central restaurant strip, Rue des Bouchers (Butcher's Street).  
europe_berlin_activities.html:  Activities  Berlin's many parks and forests are tailormade for walking and jogging. There are also dozens of swimming pools to choose from. Soccer, volleyball, handball and other team sports are popular too, but you usually have to join a club. In the outer suburbs you'll find large sports centres that combine, all under one roof, a pool, squash and tennis courts, fitness studios, sauna etc. One of the more central is the Sport-und Erholungszentrum in the Friedrichshain district, which even incorporates an ice rink. The countryside around central Berlin has many lovely cycling routes. Ice skating is available at a number of indoor rinks from mid-Oct to early March.  
europe_berlin_attractions.html:  Attractions  One of Berlin's most photographed sites, the Brandenburg Gate was once the boundary between East and West Berlin. The Wall came down in 1989 and the gate - long a symbol of division - became the very epitome of German reunification. The gate is the only remaining one of the 18 that once graced Berlin. It was designed by Carl Gotthard Langhans in 1791 in neoclassical style and crowned by an ornate sculpture representing the goddess Victory. She was spirited away to Paris in 1806 by Napoleon after his occupation of Berlin, and returned trimphantly in 1814, freed from the French by a gallant Prussian general. Political groups from various ideological corners hijacked the pliable Brandenburg Gate as the backdrop for their rallies and processions until 1961, when the wall was built and the gate sealed off in no-man's-land. In 1989, after the dissolution of the border, the area was reopened to the public. Today, traffic passes freely under the gate and enterprising scammers have long been selling hunks of Berlin Wall concrete, most of dubious authenticity. If the Berlin Wall was ever reconstructed from the fragments sold to tourists it could probably enclose the whole of Germany. In October 2002 the Gate was reopened after two years of restoration. If you need some time out, sit and contemplate peace in the Raum der Stille (Room of Silence) in the gate's north wing.  
europe_berlin_facts.html:  When to Go  Berlin is a fascinating city year-round, although most visitors arrive between May and September when the weather is the most reliable. Things are busier in high season, but despite the crowds, summer is a lovely time to be here because much of life moves outdoors. Rain is, however, possible in any month, so come prepared. From November to early March, skies tend to be gloomy and the mercury often drops below freezing. On the plus side, there are fewer visitors and shorter queues. Avoid major holidays like Easter, Christmas and New Year and special events like the Love Parade - unless, of course, that's what brings you here in the first place.     Events  Berlin's calendar is loaded with annual fairs, festivals, concerts and parties. The International Film Festival Berlin, the second largest in the world, is held in February. The Festival Days in April is a 10-day festa of gala concerts and operas. May's Carnival of Cultures is Berlin's answer to London's Notting Hill Carnival. June is awash with composers, with the Mozart Festival and Bach Tage Berlin. Also in June is Christopher Street Day, the city's big gay parade, while the techno Love Parade goes doof in mid-July, attracting up to a million ravers. In September the Berlin Festival Weeks celebrates with a themed month of concerts, exhibits, plays and other cultural events. Jazz Fest Berlin doo-bops in November and Christmas Markets are held throughout the city in the month before the big day.   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day March/April - Good Friday March/April - Easter Sunday March/April - Easter Monday 1 May - Labour Day 40 days after Easter - Ascension Day May/June - Whit/Pentecost Sunday and Monday 3 October - Day of German Unity 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - Boxing/St Stephen's Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to BerlinTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_berlin_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  On the Havel River just beyond the southwestern tip of Berlin, Potsdam was the address of German bigwigs from the 17th century onward. They all left behind palaces, both awe-inspiring and nauseating, as testament to their egos. Schloss Sanssouci (No Worries Castle) was commissioned by Friedrich the Great in the mid-18th century and emulates the French grandeur and stateliness of which he was enamoured. Unfortunately, Friedrich's take on Gallic palatial chic was about as authentic as the execrable French poetry he quilled. Also here is Wilhelm II's mock-Tudor mansion, which was used by the Allies in July 1945 at the famous Potsdam Conference to determine the fate of a defeated Germany.  
europe_birmingham_activities.html:  Activities  There's no excuse to be idle in the first city to be awarded British City of Sport status. For speed junkies, there's stock car racing in Brandon, horse racing at a variety of racecourses and greyhound racing at Perry Barr.  If you're going to ride in a steam train, you may as well do it in the city where they were invented (at least if it breaks down there are people who know how to fix it). The Shakespeare Express choo choos every Sunday in summer from Tyseley Locomotive Works on the Warwick Rd (A41) in Birmingham to Stratford-upon-Avon.  Winter-sports fans can practise their skiing and snowboarding at Tamworth Snowdome, an indoor real snow slope; Birmingham also has a rink for ice-skating. As well as the usual rugby and football clubs, Birmingham is known for its cricket at the famous Warwickshire County Cricket Ground in Edgbaston, and a variety of golf courses, including the Belfry.  It may look like a mass of modern buildings, but Birmingham has over 200 parks where visitors can go walking or jogging. Cannon Hill Park also has tennis courts, bowling greens, nature trails and boating lakes, and if you like water but don't want to row you can take canal trips from Gas St Basin in the centre of town. There are also plenty of walks you can take along the canals.  
europe_birmingham_attractions.html:  Attractions  In Chamberlain Square, the Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery is famous for its excellent permanent collection of Pre-Raphaelite art. There's a room devoted to work by local lad Sir Edward Burne-Jones (1833-93) and you can see paintings by other members of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood (founded 1848), including Dante Gabriel Rossetti and Ford Madox Brown. The museum has exhibitions celebrating the city's industries, and displays on local and natural history, ethnography and archaeology. Look out for William Morris' illustrations of Dante's Inferno and outside, Big Brum, Birmingham's answer to Big Ben. Don't miss the charming Edwardian Tea Room.  
europe_birmingham_facts.html:  When to Go  Birmingham doesn't have a peak season as such. The main theatres shut for the summer, but all other attractions remain open. Large conventions and exhibitions run year-round, and accommodation can be harder to find at these times. As a rule if you go between May and September you're more likely to get blue skies than during the colder winter months, but, as any Anglophile knows, the heavens could open at any time.     Events  Many events take place in the city itself. May sees the mad colours and atmosphere of Gay Pride take over the streets. The Latin American Festival and the Birmingham International Jazz Festival have events all around the city in July. In August Fireworks Fantasia, with the Birmingham Symphony Orchestra, lights up the sky above Cannon Hill Park. On the last weekend in August is Party in the Park, which welcomes chart-topping bands in aid of the Prince's Trust. September's Artsfest, with over 200 free events in the performing and visual arts, is the highlight of the cultural calendar. The city celebrates its multicultural society with Sikh, Muslim and Hindu festivals throughout the year.  Birmingham also plays host to popular shows such as canine competition Crufts (March) and the BBC's Good Homes Show(May), Gardeners' World Live(July) and Good Food Show(November), when creative interior designers, green-fingered artistes and cult cooks will answer your queries and offer advice. The British International Motor Show attracts crowds in October. In December the Clothes Show features fashion shows and talent spotters: get your stilettos out, girls. Sports fans note that the Edgbaston cricket ground just outside the city usually hosts a One Day Cricket International in either June or July.    
europe_birmingham_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  It's not as complicated as building a steam engine, but for some the balti has been as much of a life-changing experience: thank you Birmingham. The curry whose origins are Kashmiri-Pakistani was first mixed here by an immigrant using a special pan. His culinary genius was soon appreciated by the masses, and Birmingham's balti credentials were set. The Balti Mile of Sparbrook, Sparkhill and Balsall Heath is home to over 50 balti restaurants packed into three streets 2mi (3.25km) south of the city centre. There are also shops selling kitchenware, such as balti bowls, and Indian-style dresses.  
europe_bologna_activities.html:  Activities  Once named an official 'European City of Culture', Bologna always offers remarkable amounts of cinema, theatre, opera and classical music. The public film library promotes the revival of old movies, and organises screenings and festivals of old restored films. Some screenings are part of Bologna's summer festival and are held in open-air venues in Piazza Maggiore near the Palazzo Comunale. Later in the evening, the students, the gay community and a few lucky tourists keep Bologna's bars and nightclubs hot-hot-hot.  Most people who visit Bologna spend a lot of time looking at the city's superb churches, museums and galleries. But the city is also famous for it's dining. Bologna's many restaurants, cafes and food stores offer excellent locally made delicacies and drinks: hand-made pasta in all kinds of sauces, delicious Mortadella (Bologna sausage), cheese, cakes, pastries, local wines like the Lambrusco red and the region's full, dry Sauvignon, and for desert, gelato, or, even better, gelato sandwiches. After you eat you can do some shopping; the main shopping streets are Via Ugo Bassi, Via Rizzoli, Via Marconi, Via dell'Indipendenza, Via Massimo d'Azeglio, Via Farini and Via San Felice. But don't come on Thursday - almost all shops shut for the afternoon.  
europe_bologna_attractions.html:  Attractions  At the centre of the oldest part of Bologna, the broad open spaces of the Piazza Maggiore and the adjoining Piazza del Nettuno are surrounded by some of the city's most impressive medieval and Renaissance buildings and monuments. But these huge pedestrian squares are not rarefied, contemplative places; in the midst of all the splendour you'll see hundreds of busy Bolognesi carrying on with their everyday business, meeting in cafes, and crowding around the many musicians and street performers.  The wide street connecting the two piazzas is graced by an enormous fountain, the Fontana del Nettuno. The fountain, built in 1566, has bronze statuary by a Flemish sculptor, Jean Boulogne de Douai, who became so famous for the job he was nicknamed 'Giambologna'. A massive figure of Neptune stands on top of the fountain, trident in hand. Neptune is attended by four angels, symbolising the four winds, and four sirens - gleefully watching water spouting from their own breasts - representing the four continents known to the Renaissance world.  On the western side of the two piazzas is Bologna's town hall, the Palazzo Comunale. Its grandiose central staircase, attributed to the Renaissance architect Donato Bramante, was built wide enough for horse drawn carriages to transport their noble occupants up to the first floor. The palazzo houses an extensive collection of medieval and Renaissance paintings, sculpture and furniture. Outside the Palazzo you'll see a huge panel covered with photographs of Italian partisans killed during the WWII; such displays are common in the region of Emilia-Romagna, which was a centre of fierce partisan resistance to the German Occupation.  
europe_bologna_facts.html:  When to Go  Winter in Northern Italy can be can very cold, especially in January, and summers very hot, especially in July and August. By August so many businesses in Bologna are closed it seems the whole city has gone to the beach. The best time to travel is probably in spring. The weather is warm though rarely too hot, and Bologna - while never overwhelmed by tourists - will have even shorter queues.     Events  Bologna is one of the great cultural centres of Europe, with religious, art, music and film festivals throughout the year. The Cinema dei Paesi Arabi film festival is held once every two years (even-numbered years) in January. Carneval, from February to March, is a time of parades, costumes, feasting and general high jinks before things sober up for Lent. After Lent it's time for some music, the Bologna Festival of classical music is held at different venues around the city in May and June, and the Sintonia d'Assoli festival of jazz and contemporary music is held from May to July. The Bologna Sogna Open Festival of film, theatre and music runs from June to August, and the Made in Bo outdoor pop festival takes place under the summer sun in July. The Santo dal Mondo ethnic music festival takes place in November, and then everybody's cooking mountains of food for Christmas.  Bologna is also something of a European conference and trade fair capital, with numerous trade, industrial and professional conventions held all year round; one of the biggest is the international Children's Book Fair in March.    
europe_bologna_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This hill-top sanctuary, about 4km (2.4mi) from the centre of town, is visible on a clear day from most parts of Bologna. The basilica, built in the eighteenth century, is connected to the city walls by a lovely long portico, or covered walkway, made up of 666 arches (a number of some theological significance). You can take a bus from the town centre and change at Villa Spada for a minibus to the sanctuary; but when the sun is shining it's worth getting off at Meloncello and walking underneath the arches for the remaining 2km (1.2mi).  
europe_bordeaux_activities.html:  Activities  'What else is there to do in Bordeaux but drink wine?', you might ask. Well, it's true that wine tasting courses, chateau visits, wine shopping and clubbing your way through Bordeaux' vibrant nightlife are probably the Bordeaux region's number one pastime. There are, however, plenty of things to do that don't involve wine - and we don't mean cooking and language classes, though these are also on offer. We're talking physical, outdoor, smell-the-roses, sweat-out-the-alcohol activities.  France is a cyclist's dream destination, and the area around Bordeaux, particularly Arcachon, offers a wealth of easy cycling routes. If you need a little culture mixed in with your exercise, the Bordeaux tourist office offers walking tours to get your mind as well as your heart racing. The Medoc has some great beaches, and sea kayaking, windsurfing, diving and boat excursions are all possible. If naturism is your thang, Euronat, a relaxed naturist village 80km (50mi) north of Bordeaux is one of France's prime spots to get nude. (You'll need a membership card or International Naturist Federation naturist passport.)  
europe_bordeaux_attractions.html:  Attractions  Top of your museums list should be the outstanding Musee d'Aquitaine (Museum of Aquitaine), which illustrates 25,000 years of Bordeaux' history and ethnography. The prehistoric period is represented by a number of exceptional artifacts, including several stone carvings of women. A detailed, English-language catalogue can be borrowed (with a deposit) at the ticket counter. The museum is at 20 cours Pasteur.  If you plan to visit more than one of Bordeaux' great museums, take advantage of the city's free Carte Bordeaux Decouverte, available at the tourist office. You pay full price for the first museum you visit (or walking tour you take) and then, for visits to other museums you qualify for the reduced-price fee usually reserved for under-25s and over-60s. It's a great deal!  
europe_bordeaux_facts.html:  When to Go  France, including Bordeaux, is at its best in spring, though winter-like relapses aren't unknown. Autumn is pleasant, too, but the days are fairly short. Bordeaux's proximity to the Atlantic Ocean protects its grapes - and visitors - from both frosty chills and excessive heat, so expect a mild climate.  If you plan to visit Bordeaux over Christmas, New Year, February to March or mid-July to the end of August, prepare for a patience-testing melange of kids on school holidays and adults escaping France's cities during their annual leave. Finding inexpensive, and sometimes any, accommodation during these times can be a headache.  Wineries are often closed during the grape harvest (in October). In addition, most wineries require advance reservations for visits, and many don't welcome visitors at all, so always check in advance - either with individual chateaux or local wine offices - before planning a wine tasting tour.     Events  Wine tasting is the main event in these parts, but there is plenty of other stuff happening throughout the year, from art exhibitions to music performances, to entertain you while quaffing. Bordeaux' key event is, as you would expect, the F te du Vin (Wine Festival). It takes place in late June and early July and is an excellent opportunity to get to know the region's famous red stuff. Wine-making exhibitions, wine tasting, traditional music and dance performances, local cuisine and much more keep the wine flowing while introducing you to the best of Bordeaux culture.  Most (but not all) of the usual religious public holidays apply: Easter Sunday and Monday (P ques & Lundi de P ques) in late March-April, Ascension Thursday (L'Ascension) in May, Pentecost/Whit Sunday and Whit Monday (Pentec te & lundi de Pentec te) mid-May to mid-June, Assumption Day (L'Assomption) on 15 August, All Saints' Day (La Toussaint) on 1 November and Christmas (No l), 25 December.  As well, the French celebrate May Day (F te du Travail) on 1 May and Bastille Day/National Day (F te Nationale) on 14 July with particular gusto. Victoire 1945 on 8 May, Remembrance Day (Le onze Novembre) on 11 November and New Years Day (Jour de l'An), 1 January are also celebrated.    
europe_bordeaux_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Less off the beaten track, and more front, centre and absolutely on the - very well-worn - track, the Medoc, northwest of Bordeaux, is king of the chateau when it comes to Bordeaux' 1000 sq km (309 sq mi) wine-growing region. Some of Bordeaux' most celebrated vineyards - those of Haute Medoc, Margaux and neighbouring appellations - can be found in this area, making it an essential inclusion on any grape-grazing trip.  The gravelly soil of the Medoc's gently rolling hills supports orderly rows of meticulously tended grape vines (mainly Cabernet Sauvignon) that produce some of the world's most sought-after red wines. The most beautiful part of this renowned wine-growing area is north of Pauillac, along the D2 and the D204 (towards Lesparre).  Chateaux in the Pauillac appellation that welcome visitors by appointment include the beautifully landscaped Ch teau Lafitte Rothschild, famed for its premier grand cru classe, and the equally illustrious Ch teau Mouton Rothschild. Both offer tours and tasting sessions. In the nearby St-Julien appellation, the impressive Ch teau Beychevelle also has tours. About 20km (12mi) to the south in Margaux, you can visit the celebrated Ch teau Margaux. Ch teau Palmer, on the D2 just south of Margaux in Issan, has tours and tastings weekdays. Both require advance reservations.  The Pauillac tourist office houses the Maison du Tourisme et du Vin, possibly the best resource in the region for vineyard-visiting tourists. Open daily, year round, it sells wine, makes chateau appointments, offers wine tasting, has a permanent wine exhibition and provides general information about the region. Be sure to grab a copy of their Medoc Guide Decouverte brochure, which lists chateaux and how to visit them.  Teetotallers and those who need to put a cork in their wine tasting will enjoy the Medoc's fine-sand beaches. Bordered by dunes and lagoons, they stretch for some 200km (124mi) from Pointe de Grave south along the C te d'Argent to the Bassin d'Arcachon and beyond. Seaside resorts include Cap Ferret, Soulac-sur-Mer, a lively town with a wide, safe beach and Euronat, a relaxed naturist village.  
europe_bosnia_hercegovina_activities.html:  Activities  Bosnia-Hercegovina's ample forests, streams and mountains provide the potential for some serious outdoor adventuring. Hunting, hiking, rafting and fishing opportunities abound, as do potentially tamer pursuits at any of the country's ski resorts and health spas. Though plans are underway to develop some of these activities into regular tourist draws, the specter of the nation's bloody past is proving to be a formidable obstacle to that goal. So will the myriad mines and booby traps planted throughout the country's forests, which still take a heavy toll on wildlife.  
europe_bosnia_hercegovina_attractions.html:  Attractions  Before the war, Sarajevo was the most Oriental city in Europe, retaining the essence of its rich history with its mosques, markets and picturesque old Turkish bazaar. The city's riverfront remained largely unchanged since that fateful day in 1914 when Archduke Francis Ferdinand lost his life here. And from 70 years later, when Sarajevo again captured the world's attention by hosting the 1984 Winter Olympic Games, you could visit the arenas of competition.  For hundreds of years, Sarajevo had been a place where Muslims, Serbs, Croats, Turks, Jews and others could peacefully coexist, but this tradition of tolerance was pounded into rubble by Serbian artillery during the recent war, leaving over 10,000 people dead and 50,000 wounded.  Despite the barbarity of the three-year siege, Sarajevo has once again attained a degree of normalcy. The trams are running, many cafes and hotels have reopened and tourists have slowly begun to filter in. Early visitors tended to be 'war groupies,' interested in seeing first-hand the sites that had gained such a terrible notoriety during the war, but even that seems to be on the wane. With luck and time, Sarajevo may once again become a vibrant metropolis.  
europe_bosnia_hercegovina_environment.html:  Environment  Shaped like a jagged arrowhead, Bosnia-Hercegovina - for all its dominating of recent news reports - occupies an area of south-central Europe only slightly larger than that of Slovakia or the US state of Tennessee. Just east of the Adriatic Sea, it shares borders with Croatia to the north, south and west and with Serbia and Montenegro to the east. A skinny finger of Bosnia pokes through southern Croatia to wet itself in the Adriatic and give the country a full 20km (13mi) of coastline.  Within the country's post-Dayton Accord borders, Bosnia is almost evenly divided into a joint Muslim-Croat Federation (about 51% of the territory) and a Serb state, the Republika Srpska (about 49% of the territory), which fit together like a psychedelic two-piece jigsaw puzzle.  The central and southern landscape is dominated by the Dinaric Alps, which mark the convergence of three distinct ecological zones: Mediterranean, Balkan and Central European. Plains and plateaux in the north flank the Sava River. The nation's highest point is Maglic in Hercegovina, which measures in at 2385m (7825ft) above its lowest elevation, the Adriatic Sea shoreline. All of Bosnia-Hercegovina is subject to powerful earthquakes.  Typical to the region, Bosnia has hot summers and chilly winters. Sarajevo's average daily high is 1 C (34 F) in January, 21 C (70 F) in July. Springtime (April and May) is the best time to come to get a glimpse of the country's rich flora and fauna, though upland areas may still be under snow.  
europe_bosnia_hercegovina_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of the United States and most EU nations currently need only a passport to enter Bosnia-Hercegovina.Health risks: Tick-borne encephalitis, hepatitis, rabies, typhoid fever, travellers' diarrhoea, unexploded land minesTime: GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  There is no particularly good or bad time to visit. The weather is a mix of Mediterranean and Central European and is more or less agreeable year round, though both summer and winter extremes can sometimes be daunting. You needn't worry about any seasonal crush of tourists just yet.     Events  Republic Day is celebrated on 25 November in the Federation and on 9 January in the Republika Srpska. Both entities celebrate Independence Day on 1 March and May Day on 1 May, in addition to their particular religious holidays. The capital city hosts the annual Sarajevo Film Festival in late August, while the Winter Festival in February and March features theatre and musical performances.    
europe_bosnia_hercegovina_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  On 24 June 1981, six teenagers in this dirt-poor mountain village between Citluk and Ljubuski, just south-west of Mostar, saw a miraculous apparition of the Virgin Mary, and Medugorje's instant economic boom began. A decade later, Medugorje was awash with tour buses, duty-free shops, souvenir stands, car-rental offices, travel agencies, restaurants, shiny Mercedes taxis and traffic jams. 'Religious tourism' developed as if it were a beach resort. Yes, miracles do still happen.   The civil war pared the number of pilgrims to a minimum, but the tourist facilities remain intact and the crowds are returning with renewed fervour. Check the Church of St James for the daily programme of masses, meetings, blessings and prayers. If you're in it for the full nine yards, apparitions have traditionally appeared on Monday and Friday on the side of Podbrdo, the Hill of Apparitions, about an hour's walk from St James.  
europe_brussels_activities.html:  Activities  Brussels offers plenty of options for visitors who have overindulged in fine chocolate and need to lose a few kilos. There are excellent jogging routes through beautiful greenways such as Parc de Bruxelles and Parc du Cinquantenaire, as well as a dozen public pools for swimming. Among the many golf courses in and around Brussels, the 18-hole Royal Amicale Golf Club is a standout. Cycling in Brussels isn't for the faint-hearted, although there are some bike lanes around.  Come winter, head to the Grand Place to experience one of the world's most picturesque ice skating rinks, set up for just a few weeks in December. The hilly Ardennes in southeastern Belgium are the country's winter playground; cross-country skiing is the main attraction.  There are also indoor activities available in town, from gyms to courts set aside for squash and tennis. And, if you're feeling more cerebral, you can head to Le Greenwich, an Old World cafe known for its no-holds-barred chess tournaments.  
europe_brussels_attractions.html:  Attractions  Grand Place is the heart of Brussels, a top tourist draw and a vibrant, beautiful and functional part of the city. The magnificent square boasts popular sidewalk cafes, intimate cellar restaurants, the country's finest guildhouses and the splendid H tel de Ville (Town Hall), a gothic masterpiece.  The square dates from the 12th century and was once marshland. By the mid-14th century, Brussels was booming and a prosperous market covered not only the Grand Place but also the surrounding streets, as evidenced by names such as rue au Beurre (Butter St), rue des Bouchers (Butchers' St) and rue du Marche aux Poulets (Chicken Market St).  The city's increasingly wealthy merchant guilds established headquarters - guildhouses - right in the middle of the milieu. The city added the H tel de Ville, cementing the Grand Place's role as the hub of commercial, political and civic life in Brussels. If you were promoting a jousting tournament or public execution in medieval Belgium, this would have been your A-list venue.  Most of the square's historic buildings were destroyed in 1695, when France's King Louis XIV bombed the area for 36 hours. The H tel de Ville was the only major building to survive - ironic, considering that it was the primary target - and nearly all the other buildings on Grand Place today are 17th-century replacements. The superb structure of Grand Place, with its creamy fa ade covered in stone reliefs and an intricate 100m-high (328ft-high) tower topped by a gilded statue of St Michel, is open for guided tours.  The Grand Place radiates different auras depending on the time of day and season. In the morning, superb guildhouses at the bottom (southern) end glint in the sun; at dusk, the azure sky becomes a vivid backdrop to the illuminated buildings. During the summer a carpet of flowers covers the whole square, and in winter ice-skaters swirl across the transformed cobbled surface.  
europe_brussels_facts.html:  When to Go  Brussels is alluring any time of year. Most visitors arrive between May and September, when the weather is at its best. Unfortunately, the lovely temperate beauty of the place can be undermined by considerable crowds at tourist sites and a scarcity of accommodations.  If you're considering a weekend visit, Brussels is a particularly attractive option, as the majority of the city's top-end hotels drop their rates dramatically from Friday to Sunday. Don't settle for the first price you're quoted.  From November to March, the weather is often wretched (right around freezing with plenty of slushy precipitation), and the number of tourists falls off dramatically. If you pack the right clothes and keep in mind that the daylight hours will be short, you can make the most of uncrowded museums and markets. And there's always a cozy cafe where you can escape the cold and rain.     Events  Brussels has more than its fair share of special events. January kicks off the year with the Brussels International Film Festival. February is choc-full of events, including the International Cartoon & Animated Film Festival and the Valentine's Day weekend Chocolate Passion Fair. May sees the Brussels Jazz Marathon. In late June/early July there's the summer solstice spectacular of Ommegang, celebrating the annual migration of the Virgin Mary from Antwerpen to Brussels. In August the biennial Tapis des Fleurs carpets the Grand Place with flowers.  The Belgian Beer Weekend comes alive at the Grand Place in early September, and in the same month Brussels opens a handful of its protected monuments and historic buildings for Heritage Days. In the weeks preceding Christmas Marche de No l, a market, envelopes downtown Brussels.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day March/April - Easter Monday 1 May - Labour Day May (40th day after Easter) - Ascension Day 7th Monday after Easter - Whit Monday 21 July - Belgium National Day 15 August - Assumption 1 November - All Saints' Day 11 November - Armistice Day 25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to BrusselsTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_brussels_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Since 1958, when the city was chosen as the provisional seat of the European Commission and Council of Ministers, Brussels has been the de facto 'capital of Europe.' Today, the European Union (EU) is headquartered east of the city center, where some 18,000 Eurocrats process red tape and try to keep the planet's second-largest economy on track.  The EU area is bordered by the Petit Ring to the west and Parc du Cinquantenaire to the east. It's not a district for idle wandering. Totally abandoned on weekends, it comes to life only on weekdays, particularly at mealtimes. Despite this, the area does offer some interesting sights, including art nouveau houses, museums and views of the new European Parliament building.  The best place to get an overall perspective of the EU area is from the northern end of rue Froissart. Looking west from here, you can see the now defunct Berlaymont, which up until 1991 was the European Commission's bustling headquarters (it's now undergoing remodeling, including the removal of tons of asbestos).  You can also see the Council of the European Union from this vantage point, as well as the distinctive glass and steel European Parliament building, built in 1998.  The EU area isn't exactly a fun mecca of tourist infrastructure, but it does provide a unique view of regular people making history without shooting at each other.  
europe_budapest_activities.html:  Activities  Budapest is a sprawling city, with many places vying for your presence. It is a big strain on the feet. Thankfully, certain parts of Budapest are well set up for cycling, including both City and Nepliget Parks, Margaret, budai and Csepel Islands and the Buda Hills. Bikes can be rented on Margaret Island and in City Park. Other ways of experiencing Budapest a bit differently include rowing or kayaking on the Danube or - for an underground look at Budapest's belly - caving; a number of caves are open for tours.  If all that is way too energetic, Budapest caters equally well to the more indulgent among us. Bathing in Budapest's many thermal baths and swimming pools is not a luxury but a way of life; a necessity for one's sanity. Another speciality from the house of Hungary are its diverse wines, and no visit to Budapest is complete without ample wine sampling, perhaps combined with a night at the opera.  
europe_budapest_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Castle District on Castle Hill is the premier destination for visitors and contains many of Budapest's most important monuments and museums, not to mention grand views of Pest across the snaking Danube. The walled area consists of two distinct parts: the Old Town where commoners lived in the Middle Ages, and the Royal Palace. Stroll around the medieval streets of the Old Town and and take in the odd museum. A brief tour in one of the horse-drawn hackney cabs is worthwhile for the leg weary. The Old Town is filled with attractively painted houses, decorative churches and the famous Fishermen's Bastion. The latter was built as a viewing platform in 1905, named after the guild of fishermen responsible for defending this stretch of wall in the Middle Ages. It has commanding views over the city, and is dominated by seven gleaming turrets (representing the seven Magyar tribes who entered the Carpathian Basin in the 9th century) and a statue of St Stephen on horseback. Immediately south of the Old Town is the Royal Palace.  The Royal Palace has been burned, bombed, razed, rebuilt and redesigned at least half a dozen times over the past seven centuries. What you see today clinging to the southern end of Castle Hill is an 18th and early 20th-century amalgam reconstructed after the last war. It houses, among other things, the impressive National Gallery (which has a huge section devoted to Hungarian art), the National Library and the Budapest History Museum. At the rear of the museum take a relaxing break in the palace gardens. Ferdinand Gate under the conical Mace Tower will bring you to a set of steps. These descend to a historic Turkish cemetery dating from the decisive Independence battle for Buda of 1686. To get to the Royal Palace, take the Sikl, a funicular built in 1870 from Clark d m, or for the more energetic, walk up the `Royal Steps' or the wide staircase that goes to the southern end of the Royal Palace.  
europe_budapest_facts.html:  When to Go  Budapest averages 2000 hours of sunshine a year, among the highest in Europe. Although we're not sure who measured this, it means there are opportunities to visit Budapest throughout the year in reasonably fine weather and avoid the madness and expense of Europe's high season. Both spring and autumn are glorious in Budapest, with plenty to see and do, and the winter cold doesn't really hit until mid-December when many museums and tourist sights close. However, even in winter there are occasionally spectacular blue skies. Summer can be hot and lazy, perfect for soaking up a Dreher (Hungary's local beer) at a hip outdoor cafe or any of the myriad festivals occurring around town.     Events  Budapest is a cultural Mecca and has a long tradition celebrating its chequered history; each of the four seasons has its own festivals. Budapest Farewell is a fervent masquerade party held at several open-air venues around Budapest and celebrates the last Russian soldiers' departure from Hungary in 1991. The Jewish Summer Festival and International Wine Festival showcase the richness of Budapest's history, art and culture in venues throughout the city. The Budafest Summer Opera & Ballet Festival provides the opportunity to see some of the world's finest high culture in Budapest's amazing Opera House at very affordable prices. Not to be missed.  If the classics are not your thing, join the frenzied throng on buda Island - an old disused shipyard - at the Pepsi Island multicultural youth festival, home to central Europe's highest concentration of the 'mullet' hairstyle, moshing and doofing it with the best of the west. Proudly brought to you by Hungary's beverage provider of choice (just don't mention the `other' brand). Hungary's premier sporting event is the Hungarian Formula One Grand Prix held in mid-August each year.    
europe_budapest_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Although a long day trip from Budapest (128km, 80mi), Eger is a beautifully preserved baroque town, with a relaxed, almost Mediterranean feel. It is flanked by two of the Northern Uplands' most splendid ranges of hills and is also home to the celebrated Egri Bikaver (Eger Bull's Blood) wine. Climbing the cobblestone lane to Eger Castle, dating to the 13th century, presents the best overview of the city. There is also a walking tour of the city which starts at Eger Cathedral (1836) in the town centre. The wine cellars of the seductively named Valley of the Beautiful Women are not to be missed. Southwest of the town centre and down into the valley are dozens of cellars - some with musicians and outside tables, others locked up to party elsewhere. This is the place to sample Bull's Blood. Everybody loves Eger, perhaps it's the wine. There are up to five direct trains a day (two hours) from Budapest's Keleti station and also very good bus services running every hour or so to/from Nepstadion via route No 3.  
europe_bulgaria_activities.html:  Activities   Skiing is well-established in Bulgaria, with the season running from December to April. Mt Vitosha, on the southern outskirts of Sofia, is the most accessible of Bulgaria's ski areas; but the largest resort is at Borovets, 70km (43mi) south of Sofia, which has the highest mountains in the Balkans as a backdrop. Pamporovo in the Rodopi Mountains is popular with package tourists and Bansko in the Pirin Mountains is Bulgaria's least commercialised ski resort. Mountain climbing is feasible and you don't have to be Edmund Hillary to scale Musala Peak. There are less strenuous hiking and caving possibilities in the Stara Planina range and in the Rodopi Mountains. Watersports and horseriding are also popular leisure activities among Bulgarians.  
europe_bulgaria_attractions.html:  Attractions  Sofia's city centre is an eclectic mix of architectural styles, largely rebuilt after WWII bombings and complete with a yellow-brick boulevard. Like any other major capital city, Sofia has its problems, including drug-related crime and some of the world's nastiest drivers; however, the EU's 'Beautiful Bulgaria Project' is sprucing up historic buildings and energising old neighbourhoods. The city's compactnes and diversity make it a great place to get your bearings before heading off to discover the real Bulgaria.  The central train station is on the north side of the city centre. From the station, bulevard Mariya Luisa runs south to Sveta Nedelya Cathedral, restored after a 1924 bomb attempt on Tsar Boris III in which 124 people (including most of the cabinet) were killed. The 14th-century church of St Petka Samardjiiska is nearby. The inconspicuous exterior gives no clue to the lovely frescoes in the dim, spooky nave. On the other side of the cathedral, near the National Museum of History, is Vitosha bulevard, the fashionable avenue of modern Sofia.  The eastern end of the city centre is dominated by the neo-Byzantine Alexander Nevski Church, a memorial to the 200,000 Russian soldiers who died in the fight for Bulgaria's independence. Ploschtad Batenberg to the east is dominated by the Georgi Dimitrov Mausoleum. Dimitrov was prime minister of Bulgaria from 1946 until he died in 1949. Until mid-1990, when his embalmed body was cremated, the public was allowed to file reverently past the deified figure while an honour guard looked on. Across ploschtad Batenberg to the north is the Former Party House, an oppressive Stalinist construction which was sacked and partially burned by demonstrators in 1990. It subsequently served as a cinema, bazaar and disco, but government business is once more conducted here.   Mt Vitosha, the rounded mountain which looms just 8km south of Sofia, is a popular ski resort in winter, while in summer a chairlift operates for the benefit of sightseers. Vitosha is accessible by local bus, making it an extremely popular Sunday outing for the locals, so take the trip on another day if you can.  With the demise of communist-controlled tourism, it has become much easier to find a cheap place to stay in Sofia, although foreigners still pay up to 10 times more than Bulgarians. Your best bet is one of the new private hotels springing up around the city centre, or else try one of the private room agencies which organise single and double rooms with bathrooms in people's apartments. You'll find Bulgaria's most cosmopolitan cuisine in Sofia, though it also has the country's widest range of greasy American belly-glop. The best places to look out for are mehanas, tavern-style traditional restaurants, usually very cheap, and serving traditional Bulgarian food until late.  
europe_bulgaria_environment.html:  Environment  Bulgaria sits at the crossroads of Europe and Asia, right in the belly of the Balkans. Any journey of length showcases the country's amazing variety of landforms. From the banks of the Danube, a windswept plain slopes up to the rounded summits of the Stara Planina. This east-west range runs right across the northern half of the country from the Black Sea to Serbia. Southern Bulgaria is even more mountainous. Musala Peak (2925m) in the Rila Mountains south of Sofia is the highest mountain between the Alps and Transcaucasia, and is almost equalled by Vihren Peak (2915m) in the Pirin Massif farther south. The Rodopi Mountains stretch east along the Greek border from Rila and Pirin, midway between the Aegean Sea and the Thracian Plain of central Bulgaria. This plain opens onto the Black Sea coast with great bays and coastal lakes at Burgas and Varna.  As in many post-communist countries, the lure of fast cash outweighs economically sustainable development. Logging and animal poaching occur in protected areas, endangering birds such as the white stork and the black vulture. Bulgaria's bear population, temporarily boosted by 'bear refugees' from war-torn Yugoslavia, is again declining. Deer, bunnies and sneaky tree-loppers are the only furry critters likely to scram out of your way as you tramp the Bulgarian forests.  The Kozloduj nuclear power plant 200km (124mi) north of Sofia is one of the world's most dangerous nuclear facilities. Since the plant opened in 1974, periodic minor accidents and safety scares have forced partial shutdowns and caused power cuts across the country. Despite Western aid allocated to close the facility, no moves have been made to shut it down.  
europe_bulgaria_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Nationals of some 30 countries - including the USA, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the UK and other EU countries - are admitted without a visa for stays of less than 30 days. Alternatively, a 90-day visa costs between US$30-60 depending on which country you apply from. Visitors of most other nationalities are issued visas on a shifting fee scale depending on the type of visa sought - transit, tourist or business.Health risks: No particular risks, but you're advised to stick to private clinics if you require medical treatment in Bulgaria.Time: GMT/UTC plus two hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 8 million visitors annually When to Go  Bulgaria has a temperate climate, with cold damp winters and hot dry summers. Spring (April to mid-June) is a good time to visit, with mild and pleasant weather and a host of cultural events taking place. Summer (mid-June to September) has reliable weather, perfect for hiking and outdoor festivals but the beaches on the Black Sea coast can get insanely crowded, and accommodation and camping grounds in coastal resorts tend to fill up. The coast is virtually deserted from mid-September to mid-May. The ski season begins in mid-December and can last until April.     Events  Public holidays include New Year (1 and 2 January), Liberation Day (3 March), Cyrillic Alphabet Day (24 May) and Christmas (25 and 26 December). The reason for the two Christmas days is that religious Bulgarians were forbidden to practise during the Communist era, so they invented a secular - and suspiciously Christmas-like - celebration on the following day. Since the collapse of Communism, the original Christmas Day has been celebrated as before, but the invented holiday has been sensibly retained. Bulgarians observe a number of traditional customs. Trifon Zarezan on 14 February is the ancient festival of the wine growers. Vines are pruned and sprinkled with wine to ensure a bounteous harvest. On 1 March Bulgarians give one another  martenitsi, red and white tasselled threads which are worn for health and happiness at the coming of spring. When wearers see their first stork of the season, the martenitsa is tied to the nearest tree.  At the Koprivshtitsa International Folk Festival, which is held every five years, some 4000 finalists compete for awards. There is a biennial festival in Pernik at which participants, wearing traditional masks and costumes, perform ancient dances to drive away evil spirits and ask the good spirits for a plentiful harvest. Kukeri is another spring festival, most avidly celebrated in the Rodopi Mountains. The Festival of Roses is celebrated with folk songs and dances at Kazanl k and Karlovo on the first Sunday in June.    
europe_bulgaria_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Take a slow wander through the Rodopi Mountains, home to Bulgaria's most isolated and ethnically diverse communities. The landscape takes in spectacular gorges and steep rocky slopes which open onto tiered fields and pine forests. The traditions of Bulgaria's Slavs are strongest in the Rodopi, and it is here most of the Muslim population lives: ethnic Turks and Pomaks, whose ancestors converted during the rule of the Ottoman Empire. During the communist period a 20km (12mi) exclusion zone was enforced along Bulgaria's southern border, ensuring that the villagers in this region were isolated.  Many travellers only get as far south as Bachkovo Monastery, 30km (19mi) south of Plovdiv. Smolyan, a large logging town 70km (43mi) farther south, is a good base for visits to the surrounding area. The ski resort of Pamporovo, 16km (10mi) north-west, is popular with package tourists from Britain and Germany, but day-trippers are also welcome. Twenty km north-west of Smolyan is Shiroka L ka, a scenic village of stone houses, meandering goats and chatting villagers striking casual poses with pitchforks and donkeys. The village is renowned for its traditional music, with a week-long festival taking place in mid-April.  
europe_canary_islands_activities.html:  Activities  The most in-your-face activity in the islands is beach-lazing, but you don't have to look hard for more active pastimes. Mountain bikes are readily available, and the islands lend themselves to cycling. Plenty of tracks in the country are fine for hiking, and by the coast conditions for surfing and windsurfing are excellent. For windsurfers, the Bah a de Pozo Izquierdo is the best beach on Gran Canaria, which is the windiest of all the islands. The swimming is generally better in summer, as the Atlantic has powerful swells in winter. Go snorkelling or scuba diving and you might see rays, grouper, barracuda, turtles, tropical fish and the occasional shark. Deep sea fishing and sailing are good for those with a little more money to spend, and the fishing off Gran Canaria is excellent.  
europe_canary_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  The largest town in the Canaries, Las Palmas unmistakably has a big city feel. It sits on the north-eastern tip of Gran Canaria and has begun swallowing up La Isleta, a small island to its north. The old historical centre is around the Vegueta and Triana districts in the south, and the city hugs the coast up a series of long boulevards a good 3km (1.8mi) to the bustling Santa Catalina and Puerto de la Luz. The 3km (1.8mi) long beach Playa de las Canteras is on the western edge of the land bridge to La Isleta, and at Playa de las Canteras you'll find the tourist office, the bulk of the hotels, the bars and more bars, shops and more shops. It is probably the only city in the Canaries where you may need to use the bus service to get around.  The Casa/Museo de Col n is a gorgeous example of Canarian architecture with fine wooden balconies overlooking two patios. Although it's called Columbus' house, it's uncertain whether he stayed there, and most of what you see was the residence of early governors. Inside is an odd assortment of navigational charts and pre-Colombian artefacts brought back from Latin America, with a few model ships and Hispanic-Flemish school portraits thrown in for good measure. The Catedral de Santa Ana is the city's main place of worship and took 350 years to complete. Nearby, the Museo Diocesano, set on two levels around the Patio de los Naranjos contains the standard collection of religious art and memorabilia, including old manuscripts and wooden sculptures.  The Museo Canario is the city's main museum, and is dedicated to chronicling Gran Canaria's pre-conquest history. It boasts the world's largest collection of Cro-Magnon skulls and displays Guanche implements and a collection of pottery. The Centro Canario de Arte Moderno is the city's main museum of modern art and shows temporary exhibits. Traditionally, the Calle Mayor de Triana has been the main shopping street in Las Palmas, and is now a pedestrian mall. Ciudad Jard n is a curious relic of the late 19th century, when the British dominated the economic life of the islands, and is an odd mixture of architectural styles ranging from British colonial to Andaluc an.  The hotels of all classes are clustered around Santa Catalina beach and the port, although there is also a good choice around Vegueta and Triana - if a little more down-market. Vegueta, Triana, Santa Catarina and the port are the best places to go looking for food as well, with restaurants and bars ranging from the humble to the magnificent, offering an assortment of food from Bulgarian fare and Argentinean beefsteaks to international fast food.  
europe_canary_islands_environment.html:  Environment  Slightly smaller than the French Mediterranean island of Corsica, the Canary Islands consist of seven main islands and six islets, which are the tips of a vast volcanic mountain range lying beneath the Atlantic Ocean. Their nearest neighbour is Morocco, about 95km (59mi) east of Fuerteventura. The islands pack a huge variety of landscapes into a small area, including weird volcanic plateaus, cloud forest wreathed in mist, cliffs lashed by Atlantic squalls and green fields growing grapes and olives. Not to mention the block after block of apartments, international hotels and beaches coated in wall to wall holiday makers that are now as much a part of the Canaries as the natural attractions.  The volcanoes that form the islands' backbone saw the light of day at about the time the Atlas Mountains were formed in North Africa millions of years ago. The highest volcano, Tenerife's Teide at 3718m (12,195ft) is Spain's tallest peak and the third tallest volcano in the world after two in Hawaii. All the volcanic activity has ensured that the soil is very fertile, but there are no rivers and the islands have been periodically plagued by water shortages. Most of the drinking water on some islands comes straight from desalination plants.  The varied altitude and rich volcanic soils have combined to create several biological treasures in the Canaries. About half of the islands' 2000 plant species are endemic, including the Canary Island palm, the Canary pine and the dragon tree, an ancient survivor that thrived before the last ice age. Microclimates in the islands allow for great variation in vegetation, from the UNESCO declared world heritage sites of laurisilva, with lichen-covered laurels, holly, linden and heather, to the dry scrublands and semi-desert areas where saltbush, palms and the rare, cactus-like card n de Jand a grow. The most interesting indigenous animal is the lagarto del Salmor, a large (up to 1m, or 3.2ft) and particularly ugly lizard found only on El Hierro. A couple of bat species inhabit the islands and so do more than 200 species of bird, although many are no more than migratory visitors. The canary, of course, is found in the wilds, but don't expect the dainty caged varieties: the wild cousin of Continental Frilleds and Gloster Fancies is a dirty brown colour.  Theoretically, the Canary Islands are one of the most extensively protected territories in Europe, with 42% of the the land mass falling under some category of park land. The four national parks are the Parque Nacional de las Ca adas del Teide, with Teide volcano as its centrepiece; the Parque Nacional de Garajonay, with a beautiful ancient rainforest; the Parque Nacional de Timanfaya, with active volcanoes; and Parque Nacional de la Caldera de Taburiente, which encloses an enormous eroded rock cauldron. The Parques Naturales form the second most extensive tier of parks, but they've generally seen a greater level of human intrusion, such as villages, farms and roads, than the national parks.  The Canaries bask in an eternal-spring climate, with mean temperatures ranging from 18 C (64 F) in winter to 24 C (75 F) in summer. On a hot day at the beach, it can still be pleasantly cool if you get up into the mountains, and you'll definitely need warm clothes if you reach any high altitudes during the winter. Except for Lanzarote and Fuerteventura, the northern side of the islands is sub-tropical, while the south, including the first two mentioned islands, is drier and slightly warmer. There is not much rain except on parts of the windswept northern coasts, and what there is tends to fall on the northern side of the more mountainous islands. The flatter islands, with no mountains to trap rain clouds, receive hardly a drop of rain. On occasion, especially in summer, the sirocco (the hot wind from the Sahara) blows in from Africa, turning day into twilight and coating everything with grime. It's at its worst in the eastern islands, and is known locally as the kalima.  
europe_canary_islands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas:Spain (of which the Canaries are a part) along with Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Portugal, forms part of the border-free travel zone known as the Schengen Area. US, Canadian, Australian, New Zealand and Israeli citizens are among those who may enter the Canary Islands as tourists without a visa and stay up to 90 days. EU passport holders can come and go as they please.Health risks: The worst you are likely to get is a hangover or digestive problems if you're not used to olive oil in cooking. No vaccinations required unless you have come from a yellow fever infected area - check with your local Spanish embassy.Time: GMT/UTCElectricity: 220V, 50 Hz.Weights & measures: Metric When to Go  Go whenever - the weather is great year-round. December to February are the islands' busiest months, bringing the thickest crowds and higher prices. Being winter, the weather is also slightly cooler. The best value on airfares is offered from November to mid-December and even better, March to May (with the exception of the Easter rush).     Events  Like many of their mainland cousins, Canarios kick back and celebrate at plenty of fiestas and ferias throughout the year.  Carnaval in February/March is the wildest time, and brings several weeks of parades, fancy dress and general good times across the islands. In Santa Cruz de Tenerife, the party rivals the Rio Carnaval. From 21 to 30 June, the  Bajada de Nuestra Se ora de las Nieves is the premier religious festival on Isla de la Palma, but is held only every five years. The most important religious celebration held on Gran Canaria is the  Fiesta de la Virgen del Pino, and festivities last for two weeks, culminating on 6 to 8 September.  Las Palmas de Gran Canaria hosts several important arts festivals, including the  Festival Internacional de M sica (January); the  Festival de Opera (February-March); the  Festival de Ballet y Danza (May); and the  Muestra Internacional de Cine, an international film festival held every two years in October and November. If that's not enough, the  Encuentro Teatral Tres Continentes draws theatre companies from Europe, Latin America and Africa to Agüimes (Gran Canaria) in September.    
europe_canary_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  El Hierro is about as far as you can get from the tourist hordes, bars, international restaurants and oil-streaked, cavorting naked Swedes. It is a rural island largely untouched by tourism, and the green farmland divided by rough stone walls is more reminiscent of the Irish countryside than a subtropical beach resort. The capital is Valverde, the only Canaries capital not on the coast, and it's a lovely, red-roofed town of about 1600. The walking is good on the island, and you can pass through hamlets such as Echedo, in the heart of wine growing territory, or the cheese producing village of Isora. In the damp and misty centre, some of the towns have been deserted, but a few herdsmen still run small flocks of sheep, goats and some cattle.  You can fly to the island from Tenerife and Gran Canaria, and there are also frequent ferries. El Hierro is about 245km (152mi) west of Las Palmas.  
europe_copenhagen_activities.html:  Activities  Despite its northern locale, Copenhagen's abundance of water means windsurfing, sailing, canoeing and swimming are all popular and easy to participate in. Beachy types with antifreeze in their veins might want to try Amager Strandpark, a popular spot on the shoreline to the city's south - it's only a short jet blast from the international airport, though, so don't expect to hear only the sounds the sea. Other beaches include Sydstranden, also in Amager but a little further south from Strandpark, and Charlottenlund and Klampenborg to the north of downtown. A number of urban swimming pools and saunas are also open to the public.  Cycling in Copenhagen is incredibly popular - and dead easy; there are excellent cycling lanes and paths, lots of bicycle racks and the city's as flat as a pancake. Green, clean Copenhagen is also a good city for a long stroll, particularly along the main north-south thoroughfare of Øster Voldgade, which is lined with a number of pleasant gardens. The botanical highlights include Kongens Have (King's Gardens), Botanisk Have (Botanical Garden) and Ørstedsparken. There are also plenty of places to play golf, badminton and squash, and to ice skate.  
europe_copenhagen_attractions.html:  Attractions  Funsters will want to head to Tivoli, the popular amusement park-cum-flower garden in the heart of the city. The famed park has been operating for over 150 years and so has had plenty of time to figure out how to best cater to the hordes of tourists and locals, many trailing enthusiastic youngsters, who flock there between mid-April and late-September each year. There are all the usual fun-park attractions, such as a roller coaster, Ferris wheel, open-air performances, carnival games and food pavilions. For the more cultured fun-loving palates, there are also traditional folk dances and a large concert hall hosting international symphony orchestras and ballet troupes. Tivoli also opens up for a few weeks prior to Christmas for holiday festivities, a seasonal market and ice-skating on the lake.  When you've had all the gee-whiz, whoop-it-up, wallet-emptying festivities you can stomach, stagger out to the northern corner of the Tivoli compound and proceed in a calmer consumer-oriented manner up the world's longest pedestrian mall, Strøget. Strøget is a long chain of five streets that is replete with shops and eateries, as well as a myriad of entertainment options, including street theatre.  
europe_copenhagen_facts.html:  When to Go  Copenhagen enjoys a consistently mild climate for most of the year, with average temperatures usually in the range of 9 C (48 F) to 15 C (59 F); though, in winter the shorter daylight hours, the cold and the seasonal closure of many of the city's tourist attractions combine to dull the glow on travellers' cheeks. From May to June, green is the predominant colour of Copenhagen's rural surrounds, temperatures are nice and warm, and the peak tourist season is still a month away, making this an ideal time to visit. Nonetheless, the peak season of July/August is a great time to be in Copenhagen - open-air concerts, music festivals, lots of street activity and longer hours at sightseeing attractions make it worth braving the crowds. Unfortunately, rain and grey skies will be your faithful companions in Copenhagen, since precipitation is spread fairly evenly throughout the year.     Events  The Night Film Festival takes place over 10 days in March, and features around 140 international films in their original languages. The three-day Copenhagen Carnival is held over the Whitsunday weekend (usually late May), filling the streets of the city centre with parades, samba dancing and other organised festivities. Beach bonfires are lit up all around the country on Midsummer Eve (23 June), while those who enjoy a good flaring of the nostrils should head for Klampenborg just to the north of Copenhagen for Denmark's most important horse race, the Danish Derby. The Copenhagen Jazz Festival gets toes a-tappin' over 10 days in early July, but if chamber or classical music is more your thang, hang out for the Summer Festival later that month.  In late August and early September the Danish capital plays host to the Golden Days Festival, with art exhibits, poetry readings and theatre focusing on Denmark's 'Golden Age' (1800-50). Christmas is a big celebratory deal around the country and it'll be hard to escape the numerous feel-good community fairs no matter where you are.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day Thursday before Easter - Maundy Thursday Friday before Easter - Good Friday Sunday in March/April - Easter Day day after Easter - Easter Monday fourth Friday after Easter - Common Prayer Day sixth Thursday after Easter - Ascension Day seventh Sunday after Easter - Whitsunday eight Monday after Easter - Whitmonday 5 June - Constitution Day 24 December - Christmas Eve 25 DEcember - Christmas Day 26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to CopenhagenTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_copenhagen_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  People who visit Hillerød, 40km (25mi) north-west of Copenhagen, don't really go there to visit Hillerød - they go there to see the magnificent castle around which the small town is centred: Frederiksborg Slot. This Dutch Renaissance castle looks spectacular enough from the outside - spread as it is over several small islets on a lake called Slotsø - but the interior of this former fortress and now national museum is no let-down either, with over 70 publicly accessible rooms boasting gilded ceilings, full-wall tapestries, paintings and antiques. Particularly impressive are the Riddershalen (Knights Hall) and the Slotskirken (Coronation Chapel), the latter being where Danish monarchs received their extravagant new head-gear between 1671 and 1840.  
europe_corsica_activities.html:  Activities  Corsica is a walker's paradise. The island is criss-crossed with paths leading from coast to coast and into otherwise inaccessible mountain redoubts. Walking options offer something for all tastes, all levels of ambition and all abilities, ranging from challenging two- or three-week hikes to easy afternoon strolls. The 200km (124mi) GR20 walking trail was created in 1972 and is now an institution, attracting 10,000 walkers every year. The Mare e Monti and Mare a Mare routes are less well known, but equally as beautiful, and - for the less fit - easier to traverse.  If you're interested in scuba diving, Corsica will show you as good a time as you'll find anywhere in the Mediterranean. The island's underwater kingdom has been remarkably well preserved and the clarity of its waters is legendary. There are hundreds of dive sites to choose from, including almost a dozen easily accessible wrecks. Around 30 dive centres cater for diving enthusiasts, and English-speaking instructors can usually be found. The area around Porto Vecchio offers some of the island's best diving and some of Corsica's best beaches for swimming, but these are no longer a secret and get very crowded in summer. Plage de Palombaggia is the most famous of all and perhaps the most beautiful. If snorkelling is more your thing, les Lavezzi is the place to strap on your mask and flippers.  Walking and diving are the two key activities on Corsica, but the outdoor fun doesn't stop there. Cycling is popular and you can hire out mountain bikes throughout the island. Be aware, however, that the combination of hills and heat can make cycling a somewhat trying experience. Climbing and canyoning are possibilities in the area surrounding the Col de Bavella. Niolo also offers climbing and canyoning, with canoeing thrown in for good measure. In summer you can spend time mucking about in boats, with beach towns such as Porticcio, around Porto Vecchio, and St-Florent hiring out windurfers, dinghies and sports catamarans. Horse-riding is also popular - you can cover almost the entire island on horseback, going from one equestrian centre to the next. Calvi, the Desert des Agriates, le Rousse and Porticcio all have riding centres. Organised tours are also available.  
europe_corsica_attractions.html:  Attractions  Napoleon Bonaparte's birthplace, pastel-shaded Ajacccio, is the largest town on Corsica, and the capital of Corse-du-Sud. Its lively side is slightly reminiscent of Nice on the C te d'Azur. You shouldn't expect more of Ajaccio than it can deliver though. It is a provincial place with a limited bag of tricks with which to seduce outsiders, and it also has a melancholic, or as the French might say, triste, side. Beware - when it comes to celebrating its famous son, Ajaccio is also the king of kitsch! Hotfooting it around is easy; the main road (cours Napoleon) stretches north from place de Gaulle northwards to the train station and beyond. The old town is south of place Foch.  Ajaccio is not without its cosmopolitan charms. The Musee Fesch, easy to find in rue du Cardinal Fesch, brings Boticelli, Titian and Bellini to the people. The Municipal Library, commissioned by Napoleon's brother Lucien Bonaparte, contains an impressive collection of books, many confiscated during the French revolution from emigre aristocrats and members of religious orders. If you want to see the birthplace of the French empire, literally, visit the Myusee National de la Maison Bonaparte, which contains the room in which the short-statured one was born. If you want to brush up on your history, the town also has an assortment of other museums.  You can take boat trips to the  les Sanguinaires, the Scandola nature reserve and Bonifacio. Beach bums can laze around to their heart's content at Plage du Ricanto, about 6km (3.7mi) out of town near the airport. Diving, walking and watersports are also there for the taking. A farmer's market is held in square Campinchi every morning, and Villages Corses sells Corsican delicacies, including cheeses, meats, charcuterie, liqueurs, wine, chestnut flour and honey. A cinema, casino and a number of bars and discos provide night-time entertainment.  The centre of town is compact, and it doesn't take long to make your way around the streets. Many of the Ajaccio's eating places are located near the old town and citadel. Some hotels are here also, while others are scattered north towards the railway station. Most bars can be found around rue du Roi de Rome.  
europe_corsica_environment.html:  Environment  Almost nose to nose in the Mediterranean Sea with its Italian cousin Sardinia, Corsica sits at about knee height across the water from Italy's boot. Extending the physiological metaphor, the island looks a little like a hand, with a finger (Cap Corse) pointing sternly up towards its former master, Genoa. Corsica - or Corse, as it's known in French - is around a fifth the size of Switzerland and represents just 1.6% of all French territory. A land of incredible landscapes and amazing geological history, Corsica has 43 glacier lakes and mountains that rise up thousands of metres.  This French island has a wild, almost pristine environment, which is one of the main reasons people visit. A myriad of national parks, nature reserves and regional nature parks protect over a third of the island. Geological upheaval and glaciation over the centuries has created rugged mountain ranges and alpine areas, dramatic rocky inlets such as those near Piana, tafoni (cavities), ornamental rocks and the rare orbicular diorite, a grey honeycomb rock structure, which can be found in the Alta Rocca.  Corsica's rich flora is divided over three key altitudes. The Mediterranean platform, up to 1000m (3280ft), is home to sweet-smelling maquis, holm and cork oaks, and olive and chestnut trees. Pine and beech forests cover the band between 1000 (3280ft) and 1800m (5904ft). In the alpine zone, above 1800m (5904ft), the sparse vegetation consists of grasses and small mountain plants. Citron, kiwi and avocado trees grow in the eastern lowlands.  Corsica also has its fair share of animals, including the distinctive coil-horned mouflon sheep, wild boar and the Corsican red deer, which was reintroduced from Sardinian stock in 1985 after it became extinct on Corsica. Audouin's gull, which has disappeared from mainland Europe, nests on the island, as does the bearded vulture, the rare Corsican nuthatch and the web-footed shag. The enormous osprey is an island success story; its numbers have grown from just three pairs in 1973 to around 20, thanks to the work of the Parc Naturel Regional de Corse (PNRC) administration. Another beneficiary of the PNRC is the orange and black-striped Hermann's tortoise. Pay attention when you're out walking, as Corsica also boasts an amazing 40 varieties of dragonfly!  
europe_corsica_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: EU nationals have no entry requirements; citizens of Australia, USA, Canada, New Zealand and Israel can stay visa-free for three months; most other people need a Schengen visaHealth risks: Sunburn, accidents arising from walking, mountain climbing and divingTime: GMT/UTC+1 (GMT/UTC+2 during daylight saving)Electricity: 220V (50Hz)Weights & measurements: Metric When to Go  Most people visit Corsica in July and August - when the weather is the hottest and the calendar of special events is the fullest. Of course, both people and prices are a bit harder to deal with during high season. Walkers may prefer the less sweltering months of May and June, when the sun is shining, the olives are ripening and the wildflowers are blooming. September is also a good time - hayfever sufferers are less likely to sneeze their way around the island. Early spring, late autumn and winter can be pleasant, but many facilities close down during these quieter months.     Events  There are a breathtaking number of public holidays and special events celebrated in Corsica. July, August and September are particularly busy months for this partying population. In typical French style, a surfeit of events are food and produce related, lots are religious, and a good many have a music focus.  Among the highlights in February is Renno's A Tumbera: Foire du Porc Coureur, a festival that celebrates a characteristically Corsican variety of mountain pig. Held during Holy Week in March or April, La Passion is a major Corsican-language event retracing the Passion of Christ. Also at this time is the Processions de la Semaine Sainte; the most famous processions are those in Bonifacio and Sartene. April is the month for food. Easter weekend in Piedicroce features A Merendella in Castagniccia, a fair for local farm products, while Journee du Brocciu, held in Piana at the end of April, celebrates Corsica's world-famous cheese.  On 2 June the fishing boats are blessed for St-Érasme in Ajaccio, Bastia and Calvi. July features the island's leading annual wine event, Foire de Vi de Luri, on Cap Corse; and in Bastia there's the Releve des Gouverneurs, a costume pageant retracing the arrival of the Genoese governors. F tes Napoleoniennes d'Ajaccio culminates on 15 August, the birthday of the city's leading native son. September sees the Recontres de Chants Polyphoniques de Calvi in the fantastic setting of the citadel. In December the oldest and most important fair in Corsica, Foire a la Chataigne, held in Bocognano, honours the humble chestnut.   Public Holidays: 1 January - New Year's Day March or April - Easter Sunday and Monday 1 May - Labour Day 8 May - Victoire 1945 (VE) Day 40th day after Easter - Ascension 8th Sunday & Monday after Easter - Pentecost/Whit Sunday & Monday 14 July - Bastille Day 15 August - Assumption Day (Napoleon's birthday) 1 November - All Saints' Day 11 November - Armistice Day 25 December - Christmasback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to CorsicaTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_corsica_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Here's an attraction that is not so much off the beaten track, as very much on the beaten (walking) track. The GR20 walking track is famous, with 10,000 brave souls tramping its signposted route each year. The trail follows a diagonal route from northwest to southeast along the island's continental divide. Around 200km (124mi) long, it is divided into 15 stages of five to eight hours' walking each. It cuts through the Parc Naturel Regional de Corse, traversing spectacular wilderness scenery at average altitudes of 1000-2000m (3280-6560ft). If you take up the challenge, you'll pass through deep forests of laricio pine and beech, along granite moonscapes, windswept craters, glacial lakes, torrents, peat bogs, maquis, snow-capped peaks, plains and stretches of frozen snow called neves.  Nature lovers will be delighted, as will those in search of tranquility, although it can get busy. There are refuges (mountain shelters), bergeries (shepherd's huts) and camping facilities along the way. Most people take a few detours down into villages, soaking up the culture and some decent food without a backpack. It has to be said that the GR20 is a walk that requires real stamina and commitment: the path is rocky, the weather conditions difficult and you have to be able to carry enough supplies for a few days. If you want to take this one on, do some training first! June and September, just before and after the high season, are the best times to go.  
europe_crete_activities.html:  Activities  Crete is a veritable paradise for trekking, provided you don't come during the hot summer. Options for hikes include spectacular gorges such as the Samaria Gorge, across mountains and plains, and visiting remote villages. Crete's mountainous terrain isn't ideal for cycling but travelling on two wheels through the escarpment villages and valleys of the north coast, the Mesara Plain of the south and on and down from the plateaus, is popular.  Apart from swimming, parasailing, water-skiing, jet-skiing, canoeing, yachting and windsurfing are available at most of the major beaches. The often crystal-clear waters, particularly in the south, make snorkelling and diving here a real pleasure.  
europe_crete_attractions.html:  Attractions  Crete's largest city and the main point of entry for tourists, Iraklio is often dismissed as a grim necessity that must be endured in order to get to somewhere more inviting. But scratch beneath its traffic-ridden, helter-skelter surface and you'll find a certain urban sophistication coupled with a lively cafe scene.  Iraklio's two main squares are Plateia Venizelou and Plateia Eleftherias. Plateia Venizelou, recognisable by its famous Morosini Fountain (better known as the Lion Fountain), is the heart of the city and the best place to familiarise yourself with Iraklio's layout. The city's major intersection is a few steps south of the square. From here, major arteries run northeast to the harbour, southeast to Plateia Eleftherias, west to Hania gate and south to the markets.  Your stay should at least be long enough to visit the outstanding Archaeological Museum(second in size and importance only to the National Archaeological Museum in Athens), the Historical Museum of Crete (evidence of Crete's Venetian past), the city walls, the fortress of Rocca al Mare and, of course, Plateia Venizelou and its lion fountain.  Also in the vicinity of Plateia Venizelou is El Greco Park, the rustic centre of Iraklio's civic sprawl. This is where you'll find the greatest concentration of cheapish rooms and quite a few upmarket restaurants and cafes. South of the plaza, past Lion's Square, you'll find Dedalou Street in the Korai area. It's renowned for its cafes and, although a Dedalous Street cafe latte is pretty pricey, the area has a certain high-velocity ambience that is pure Iraklio.  
europe_crete_environment.html:  Environment  Crete is the largest island in Greece and the fifth largest island in the Mediterranean. A long, slug-like island of some 260km (161mi) in length, Crete is Greece's most southerly point, with its largest city and capital, Iraklio, situated in the middle of the north side of the island. Most of the tourist developments lie either side, and the south and west coasts remain largely untouched.  Although the island is formally divided into four prefectures (Hania, Rethimnon, Heraklion and Lassithi), it's more readily divided into east, west and central Crete. The east is by far the driest part of the island, studded with the ubiquitous olive tree and a rather stunted, albeit feral, mountain range, Thripti. A bit of tourism goes on around the towns of Nikolaos and Mirambello Bay but by and large it's a fairly untouched area of Crete.  The central area of Crete crawls with tourists and vineyards, a not altogether unhappy mix. Apart from containing the capital, Iraklio, the central area of Crete is also famous for its archaeological ruins and rabidly fertile plain of Mesara that produces crops of olives, oranges and pretty-as-a-picture windmills in equal measures. Located on the border of the centre and the eastern areas is the Lasithi Plain and cave-riddled Mt Dikitu. It is said that Zeus was born in one of these caves, the Dikteon Andron. Ideon Cave, another famous cave a little to the east of here (around Mt Psiloritis), is alleged to be the spot where the newborn Zeus was hidden by his mother Rhea from his cannibalistic father, Kronos.  The western areas of Crete are the greenest and most mountainous; the White Mountains or Lefka Ori dominate the landscape, rising to a height of almost 2500m (8200ft) before plunging in spectacular fashion into the Libyan sea in the south. This sudden geomorphic freefall gives rise to a number of deep gorges, including the famous gorge of Samaria.  Most of the wild animals in Crete these days are of the two-footed Le Tan'n'Party kind but occasionally you may spot a 'kri-kri' or wild goat amongst the shrubbery, a few snakes amongst the rocks, and more snails than you could possibly be interested in on the ground. Ironically for a littoral people, for whom the sea represents a potent cultural, mythological and historical symbol (not to mention a traditional livelihood), the seas around Greece have been severely depleted of marine life. Overfishing and dynamite-fishing have contributed to this state of affairs, as has petroleum pollution from boats. Steps are only now being taken to rectify the dire situation.  
europe_crete_facts.html:  When to Go  The best times to visit Crete are late spring to early summer and autumn, when the tourist infrastructure has geared up but you won't have to contend with the crowds of summer tourists. The weather is usually pleasantly warm during this time, but not too hot, and swimming is possible.     Events  The Greek year is a succession of festivals and events. There are cultural and wine festivals throughout Crete during summer and each town celebrates the day allocated to their patron saint. The most important cultural festivals include: the Renaissance Festival in Rethymno, the Kyrvia Festival in Ierapetra, Sitia's Kornaria Festival, Iraklio's Summer Arts Festival and the Lato Festival in Agios Nikolas.   Easter is taken much more seriously than any other religious holiday throughout Greece. Try to attend a Palm Sunday ceremony, which ends with fireworks and a candle-lit procession. Other holidays of significance include: Epiphany on 6 January, Independence Day on 25 March, May Day on 1 May (when everyone seems to go into the countryside for picnics), The Battle of Crete during the last week of May and Assumption Day on 15 August, which is celebrated with family reunions.    
europe_crete_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This small town, on the southwest coast of Crete, was discovered by hippies in the 1960s. From then on its days as a quiet fishing village were numbered, but it remains a relaxing place favoured by backpackers. On summer evenings, the main street is closed and the tavernas (traditional restaurants) move onto the road. Reachable by boat from Paleohora is tiny Elafonisi, which has one of the loveliest sand beaches in Crete. In summer there are three buses a day from Hania; in winter there are two. Summer also sees daily ferries between Paleohora and Hora Sfakion.  
europe_croatia_activities.html:  Activities  The long, rugged islands off Croatia's mountainous coast make this a yachting paradise. There are plenty of deep channels, quaint ports and good steady winds. It's also a great area for sea kayaking, especially around the Elafiti Islands and the Kornati Islands. The varied topography of the coast has spurred a growing diving industry and nearly every coastal resort has a dive centre. The main attractions are shipwrecks and caves (including the famous Blue Grotto). There are excellent rock climbing opportunities, especially in Paklencia National Park and the rocks surrounding Baska on Krk Island. For landlubbers, Risnjak and Paklencia National Parks both have excellent areas for hiking.  
europe_croatia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Zagreb has been the capital of Croatia since 1557, and a lot of the medieval city is still around today. Although Zagreb was hit by rockets in 1995, the damage was not severe and recovery has been rapid: you'll still see affluent looking consumers shopping and cafe-ing the days away, smiles on their faces and Italian designer-wear on their backs. Many museums remain closed, some for 'reinterpretation'. There are some very elegant pricey hotels near the train station, and budget accommodation is hard to find.  The twin neo-Gothic spires of the Cathedral of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary (formerly St Stephen's Cathedral) were built in 1899, but you can still see elements of the medieval cathedral that was once on this site. Particularly interesting are the 13th century frescos, Renaissance pews, marble altars and a baroque pulpit. North-west of the city centre, climb the Lotrscak Tower for a sweeping 360 view of the city, or visit the Galerija Klovicevi Dvori, which hosts superb art shows. Also in the area is St Mark's Church, with its colourful painted-tile roof and sculptures by Ivan Mestrovic, and the Natural History Museum, Historical Museum of Croatia and the City Museum, housed in a former convent.  In the Lower Town you can wear down your shoes and your attention span at a whole host of museums. The Art Pavilion hosts temporary contemporary art exhibitions, the Strossmayer Gallery features paintings by the old masters and an ancient inscription in Croatian. The Archaeological Museum, like its contemporaries around the world, has exhibitions of prehistoric and medieval artefacts and Egyptian mummies. Out the back there's a Roman sculpture garden.  Before you get a gutful of museums, head to the west of the city where you'll find the Museum Mimara. This is one of the finest art galleries in Europe. Housed in a neo-Renaissance building, the gallery is the private collection of Ante Topic Mimara, who donated thousands of priceless objects to his home town. The Spanish, Italian and Dutch paintings are the highlight, but there are also displays of glassware, sculpture and Oriental art. The other real highlight of Zagreb is Mirogoj, one of the most beautiful cemeteries in Europe - it's in the north of the city. There are some gorgeous mausoleums here, and the English-style landscaping is enclosed by a long 19th century neo-Renaissance arcade.  
europe_croatia_environment.html:  Environment  Croatia is located on the north-eastern shore of the Adriatic Sea, bordered by Slovenia and Hungary to the north, Yugoslavia to the east and Bosnia-Hercegovina to the south and east. The republic is twice the size of Belgium and swings around like a boomerang from the Pannonian plains of Slavonia, across hilly central Croatia to the Istrian Peninsula and the rugged Adriatic Coast. The southernmost portion of Croatia's Adriatic Coast, including the town of Dubrovnik, is separated from the rest of the country by a knuckle of Bosnia-Hercegovina.  Croatia's main tourist attraction has always been its beaches. The country has 1778km (1103mi) of coastline; 5790km (3590mi) if you count the islands. Most of the beaches, however, are slabs of rock rather than sand. The country's offshore islands are as beautiful as those in Greece. There are 1185 of them, 66 of which are inhabited.  Croatia has seven excellent national parks. Brijuni, near Pula, is the most carefully cultivated, with well-preserved Mediterranean holm oak forests. Mountainous Risnjak National Park is home to lynx, while the dense forests of Paklenica National Park harbour insects, reptiles and birds, including the endangered griffon vulture. At Plitvice Lakes National Park you'll find bears, wolves and deer.  The climate varies from Mediterranean along the Adriatic coast to continental inland. The sunny coastal areas have hot, dry summers and mild, rainy winters. The high coastal mountains help to shield the coast from cold northerly winds, making for an early spring and a late autumn. In Zagreb, average daily high temperatures peak at 27 C (80 F) in July and drop to 2 C (35 F) in January.  
europe_croatia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of Australia, Canada, Ireland, Israel, Japan, New Zealand, the UK, the USA and most continental European countries can enter Croatia for stays of up to 90 days without a visa.Health risks: NoneTime:GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  May to September are the best months to visit Croatia weather-wise, though July and August can be busy along the Adriatic coast. September is probably the optimum month since by then the crowds have thinned out, off-season rates apply and fruits such as figs and grapes are abundant. In April and October it may be too cool for camping, but the weather is usually fine along the coast and private rooms are plentiful and inexpensive. You can swim in the sea from mid-June to late September.     Events  From 21 March to 4 April, Zagreb snaps its fingers and nods knowingly to the groovy toons of Spring Time Jazz Fever. For still more improv, try Zagreb's International Days of Jazz in mid-October. It's worth checking out spotty pop Dalmatian-style at the Split Summer Festival, which goes from mid-July to mid-August, and Zagreb's Summer Festival, from early July to mid-August, where you can hear classical works by Croatian composers. Dubrovnik's Summer Festival, held in July and August, showcases the country's dramatic and classical music stars. In July and August, Omis throws its tambura out the window for a festival of acapella vocal music.  Zagreb hosts an International Festival of Animation and an International Folklore Festival in July, as well as EUROKAZ, a European theatre festival held in June. In Sibenik, the International Child's Festival is held in the first week of July.    
europe_croatia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Rab Island, near the centre of the Kvarner island group off north-western Croatia, is one of the most enticing in the Adriatic. The north-eastern side of the island is barren and rocky, while the south-western side is green with pine forests. Medieval Rab town, one of the prettiest in the region, is built on a narrow peninsula which encloses a sheltered harbour - stone buildings climb from the harbour to a cliff overlooking the sea. Rab has been ruled by both Venice and Austria, and these days you'll hear as much German as Croatian spoken.  The towers of four of Rab's churches are easy to spot among the town's mass of red-roofed houses. The Monastery of St Anthony was built in 1675, the Romanesque Cathedral of St Mary the Great (currently being restored) has a pleasant terrace which overlooks the sea, and the St Justine Church is now a small museum of religious art. All that remains of Rab's oldest church St John's is the bell tower and the foundations. Take a walk along the city wall for spectacular views of the town, or head north to the shady walkways of the Komrcar Park. Rab Island is accessible by ferry and bus; ferries depart for Rab from the mainland port of Jablanac.  
europe_cyclades_islands_activities.html:  Activities  Most visitors to the Cyclades spend much of their time lying in the sun, beach-hopping and recovering from too much nightlife. For something a little more active, check out water sports such as windsurfing. Hsrysi Akti on Paros is one of the best spots in the country to learn the sport, and other prime locations include Ormos Korthiou on Andros, Kalafatis Beach on Mykonos, Agios Giorgios Beach on Naxos and Mylopotas Beach on Ios. If you want to try a little boating, yachts and sailboats can be chartered on Paros and Syros. Paros also offers excellent water-skiing. Snorkelling is enjoyable just about anywhere in the Cyclades - an especially good place is Monastiri on Paros. Diving is another story: to protect antiquities, any underwater activity involving breathing apparatus is forbidden, unless you're supervised by a diving school; you can find instruction in Mykonos, Santorini and Paros. For foot-on-the-ground activity, the Cyclades offer plenty of trekking opportunities, particularly on Naxos and Andros. On the smaller islands it's fun to explore and discover goat paths for yourself.  
europe_cyclades_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  Santorini (officially known as Thira) is regarded as the most spectacular of all the Greek islands. And no wonder - its submerged caldera (crater) alone is enough to warrant the spotlight, let alone its postcard images of whitewashed churches and bougainvillea-clad houses set against blue sea and sky. Santorini's spectacular caldera is a vestige of what was probably the biggest volcanic eruption in recorded history, believed by some myth-makers to have caused the disappearance of Atlantis. The island's violent volcanic history is visible everywhere you look - in black-sand beaches, earthquake-damaged dwellings and raw cliffs of lava plunging into the sea. Volcanic activity has been low-key for the past few decades, but minor tremors occur pretty frequently and experts reckon the caldera could bubble up once again at any moment. For lovers of impermanence and drama, no other place even comes close.  To get some background into this island's extraordinary history, head to the Megaron Gyzi museum of local memorabilia in Fira, with fascinating photos of the town before and after the disastrous 1956 quake. The Museum of Prehistoric Thira houses impressive finds from the ancient site of Akrotiri, destroyed in the 1650 BC eruption. Look out for the gold ibex figurine, found in mint condition in 1999 and dating from the 17th century BC.  
europe_cyclades_islands_environment.html:  Environment  The Cyclades are scattered across the southern Aegean Sea between the Peloponnese and Turkey, trickling down towards Crete and bordered by the Saronic Gulf Islands to the west and the Dodecanese to the east. The group is made up 39 islands, but the major destinations are Amorgos, Anafi, Andros, Folegandros, Ios, Kythnos, Little Cyclades, Milos, Mykonos, Naxos, Paros, Santorini, Serifos, Sifnos, Sikinos, Syros and Tinos. Santorini is the southernmost island, Andros the furthest north and Amorgos the most easterly, and the Cyclades' historic core is the ancient site of Delos, lying off Mykonos. Naxos and Andros are the largest and most fertile islands, while Anafi and the Little Cyclades are little more than clumps of rock dotted with tiny, depopulated villages.  The islands are not known for their native fauna, and introduced animals like goats, sheep, pigs and cattle predominate. Fortunately, the bird and sea life is impressive, making walking and snorkelling a joy, and the islands' flora can also be hugely rewarding. At first sight, the majority of the Cyclades islands appear to be little more than arid, rocky outcrops, but most have a surprisingly fertile heart.  Winters are never too cold in the Cyclades and snowfalls are rare, though they've been known to happen: Paros saw snow for the first time in 15 years in 1992. The islands lie right in the path of the July-August meltemi, a strong northerly wind that sweeps across the eastern coast of mainland Greece and the Cyclades. It does provide a welcome respite from the heat, but can mess with everything from ferry schedules to beach umbrellas. Conditions can also be blowy in March and October. Most rainfall is received October-May, and in summer there can be water shortages. Winter lows can average 12 C (51 F), and summer averages are 30 C (85 F) and upwards.  
europe_cyclades_islands_facts.html:  When to Go  The Cyclades have a typically Mediterranean climate with hot, dry summers and milder winters. The October-February off-season period can be a great time to visit more popular islands such as Mykonos, as they're completely different places without the crowds. Avoid the islands in high season - July and August - if you want to find a hotel room and any peace.     Events  The year's festivities begin on 1 January with the Feast of Agios Vasilis, a church ceremony followed by a gift swap, singing, dancing and plenty of pigging out. The person who gets the slice from the vasilopitta (New Year pie) that contains a coin is promised a favourable year ahead. The Greek carnival season runs for three weeks in February or March before Lent. Fancy dress, feasting and all-around merrymaking are the order of the day. The most important festival in the Greek Orthodox religion is Easter, and a moving candlelit procession can be witnessed in towns and villages on the night of Good Friday. On 1 May, May Day, there is a mass exodus from towns to the countryside, where people picnic and collect wildflowers to make into wreaths. The whole population is also on the move on 15 August for Assumption Day family reunions; this is a very good time to avoid taking public transport. Christmas isn't as huge as Easter, but it's still an excuse to celebrate a little with - you guessed it - more feasting.    
europe_cyclades_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  It may be tiny, but Delos is one of the most important archaeological sites in Greece. The sacred island is the mythical birthplace of famous twins Apollo and Artemis, and it developed as a centre of Apollo worship in the 8th century BC. During Hellenistic times it was one of the three most important religious centres in Greece, and became populated by wealthy merchants and bankers. Most of the significant historical finds from the island are in the National Archaeological Museum in Athens, but the site museum does have a modest collection, including the originals of the much-photographed plaster-cast lions that grace the Terrace of the Lions near the Sanctuary of Apollo. If you're feeling spry, climb up 113m (371ft) Mt Kythnos to get a terrific overview of Delos. The pathway is reached by walking through the Theatre Quarter, where Delos' wealthy built their houses.  You can't stay overnight on Delos, and excursion boats from nearby Mykonos allow visitors a maximum of only six hours exploring time. Bring food and water - there is a cafeteria on Delos, but it's not recommended.  
europe_cyprus_activities.html:  Activities  Unsurprisingly in a country of resorts, Cyprus has plenty of places where you can indulge in water sports. If it's windsurfing or sailing you want, head to the peninsulas and capes, where the wind is strongest. There's also at least one diving site in each of the big resorts. Mountain biking and hiking are possible all over the island, with specially marked trails in the southern hills, on the Akamas Peninsula and in the Troödos. Although hardly renowned for its skiing, Cyprus does have a resort on the northeastern face of Mount Olympus, but it's not exactly world standard. And what would a package tourist destination be without golf - several courses are complete or under construction; the most popular are in the Pafos district.  
europe_cyprus_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital of Cyprus, in the middle of the island, is cut in two by the Green Line, which divides the country. Since the wall came down in Berlin, it's the only divided capital in the world. A visit here might help you understand the problems Cyprus is facing, and should also give you a less touristy view of the country than you'll get if you stick to the coastal towns. The old town, inside the 16th-century Venetian walls, is the most interesting part of Lefkosia, with the city centre and municipal gardens just outside the wall on the south-west side.  In Lefkosia, the Leventis Municipal Museum traces the development of the city from prehistoric times and gives a pretty good overview - it's not a bad place to start your Lefkosian experience. Just east of the Leventis you'll find a museum of culture, Dragoman Hadzigeorgakis. The exhibits are nothing special, but the building - a 15th-century mansion - is gorgeous. For some really spectacular museum pieces try the Byzantine Museum in the downright ugly Archbishop's Palace, which has a superb collection of religious icons and mosaics. In the grounds of the museum, St John's Cathedral has some recently restored 18th-century frescoes. Once the main entrance to the city, the Famagusta Gate, on the eastern wall, is beautifully preserved and is now used as a cultural centre.  The centre of North Nicosia is Atatürk Square, in the north-west. From the square, the main street runs north to the well-preserved Kyrenia Gate. Near the gate you'll find the Turkish Museum, which lives in a 17th-century monastery and features a display of whirling-dervish memorabilia. The Selimiye Mosque, built in the 13th century, is one of the finest examples of Gothic architecture in the country. Famous around the world, the Büyük Hammam, in the south of town, is the city's largest Turkish bath.  In the southern part of the city most of the places to stay, cheap or otherwise, are clustered around the southern wall, with a youth hostel a bit farther south. Places to eat are in the same sort of area, with a health food shop near the hostel. In the north you'll find most accommodation around Selimiye Mosque, which is also the best area to get a bite to eat. If you're staying in the south and want to visit the north, you can usually get an entry permit which will let you stay the day. It isn't possible to day-trip in the other direction.  
europe_cyprus_environment.html:  Environment  An island in the far eastern Mediterranean Sea, below Turkey and to the west of Syria, Cyprus is is actually two countries - the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (recognised only by Turkey) and the southern Republic of Cyprus. There are two large mountain ranges on the island: the Kyrenian Range in North Cyprus and the Troödos Massif in the centre of the Republic. The northern mountains are mainly limestone, the southern are volcanic rock. These ranges are separated by the Mesaoria Plain.  Cyprus has always been an island, and many Cypriot species, particularly plants, are found nowhere else in the world. There are three main habitats in Cyprus: the mountain ranges, the coastal plains and the cultivated lands. The coastal plains are irrigated by seasonal streams, and some support citrus orchards, but native flora and fauna have been largely displaced by tourism. The best areas to see wildlife are the mountainous areas of the island and the Akamas Peninsula (which, although not a national park, has been managed for conservation). The North, being less touristed, also has a larger population of native flora and fauna. Keep an eye out for griffon vultures, foxes, fruit-eating bats, sea turtles and moufflon, a wild sheep endemic to Cyprus.  The Cypriot climate is typically Mediterranean, with very hot summers in July and August. Most of the year is dry, with unpredictable rains falling in December, January and February. Cyprus often suffers drought years, and water is such a scarce commodity that it is often rationed.  
europe_cyprus_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Nationals of the USA, Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Singapore, South Africa and the EU can stay in the Republic of Cyprus for up to three months without a visa. If you entered Cyprus in the North (ie, from Turkey), it is illegal to cross to the Republic. Travel from the Republic to the North on a day trip is legal and straightforward, but if you are late coming home your name will be placed on a black list and you will not be allowed to cross to the North again. It's also legally impossible to travel from the Republic to the North and to then continue to Turkey - you cannot take luggage with you across the Green Line, and you will be placed on the Republic's black list, which will most likely prevent you from ever entering the Republic again. Also note that Turkish-Cypriots or travelers who have a Greek family name will almost certainly be refused a day pass to visit the North. Travelers may enter the Republic only through the legal ports of entry: Larnaka and Pafos international airports, or the ports of Larnaka, Lemesos and Pafos.Health risks: No particular risks, but you should consider vaccinations for hepatitis.Time:GMT/UTC plus two hoursElectricity: 240V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The shoulder seasons - April/May and September/October - are the most pleasant times, climatically, to visit Cyprus. Summer - June to August - can be very hot, and winter is sometimes wet but still pleasant.     Events  The Republic celebrates basically the same festivals as Greece. Easter, more important in the Greek Orthodox Church than Christmas, is the biggest celebration of the year - expect candle-lit processions, fireworks and feasting. The date changes every year, but it's 50 days after the first Sunday in Lent, which is occasion for a carnival of its own. Cyprus Independence Day is celebrated on 1 October.  The North observes Muslim holidays. Foremost among these is Ramadan, a month where everyone fasts between sunup and sunset to conform to the fourth pillar of Islam. Ramadan ends with a huge feast, Eid al-Fitr, where everyone prays together, visits friends, gives presents and stuffs themselves. The Proclamation of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is celebrated on 15 November.    
europe_cyprus_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Akamas Peninsula, on the west coast, is one of the last wild and unspoilt places on the Cypriot coast. The landscape is a patchwork of barren rock and lush vegetation, with a wide variety of flora and fauna, including some rare species. It's a great destination for walkers, with a network of paths criss-crossing the peninsula. The Baths of Aphrodite are at the start of these trails. According to legend, this is where Aphrodite regularly did a Madonna, making herself like a virgin after a night on the town.   Polis itself is about the only southern beach resort that caters to independent travellers. Set among citrus orchards and surrounded by spectacular scenery, Polis is a charming and serene base for exploring the surrounding area. It's also a great place to hire a mountain bike, motorbike or car. There's nothing much to see here, but it's a great place to stare out to sea and knock back a brandy sour or six.  
europe_czech_republic_activities.html:  Activities  The Czech Republic's rolling hills and low mountains are perfect for hearty hiking, especially in the Sumava of western and southern Bohemia and the Krkonose mountains in northern Bohemia. Climbers should head to the Sandstone Rocks of the Labe in northern Bohemia and cavers should check out the Moravian Karst area north of Brno. The prime boating river is the scenic but unfortunately polluted Sazava.   Downhill skiing is plentiful, popular and relatively cheap in the Czech Republic, though facilities are not up to Western European standards and queues are long. Hired gear is generally of poor quality, so it's best to bring your own equipment. The country's best downhill skiing can be found at Spindleruv mlyn in the Krkonose between January and early April; Sumava has the best cross-country skiing trails.  
europe_czech_republic_attractions.html:  Attractions  There is no excuse for boredom in Prague. You can pack a lot of exploring into a short visit, charging through its compact network of lanes, passages and cul-de-sacs, or spend weeks meandering along and slowly savouring its sights.  Prague's prime attraction is its physical face. The city centre is a haphazard museum of 900 years' of architecture - Romanesque, Gothic, Renaissance, Baroque, 19th-century revivals of all of them, and Art Nouveau - amazingly undisturbed by the 20th century. This historical core of the city - Hradcany (the Castle District) and Mala Strana (the Small Quarter) west of the river, Stare Mesto (the Old Town) and Vaclavske namesti (Wenceslas Square) to the east, and Charles Bridge in between - covers about 3 sq km and is pedestrian-friendly, so you needn't go at break-neck speed to discover its most famous attractions.  You'll have to travel further afield to visit Nove Mesto (New Town), with its shops, cafes, museums and theatres; Vysehrad, where mythical Prague was born; and Holesovice, Smichov, Troja and Vinohrady. At least a dozen medieval chateaux and castles are only a day-trip away.  Also high on Prague's attraction list is its entertainment: music from classical through to modern jazz and rock; opera and ballet; avant-garde theatre; excellent museums; and dozens of art galleries. Prague's greatest distraction, however, is that it is now one of Europe's most popular tourist destinations, and choked with summer crowds.  You will find the most affordable accommodation in Nove Mesto and Smichov. The central district is full of places to eat, but you'll get much more for your crown in Nove Mesto than Stare Mesto.  
europe_czech_republic_environment.html:  Environment  Adjoining Austria, Germany, Poland and the Slovak Republic, the Czech Republic consists of Bohemia in the west and Moravia in the east. Within Moravia is a small southern part of the historical region called Silesia, the rest of which is in present-day Poland. Prague, the capital of both the Czech Republic and Bohemia, sits astride the Vltava River about 30km above its junction with the Labe River. The Czech Republic has a beautiful and diverse landscape with plenty of mountains, gentle highlands, lowlands, caves, canyons, broad fields, bogs, lakes, ponds and dams. Unfortunately, the further north you go, the worse the appalling air pollution and high-altitude acid-rain damage gets, the belated pay-back for unregulated industrialisation since the 19th century.  Despite centuries of clear-cutting for cultivation, forests still cover about one-third of the Czech Republic. Most remaining virgin forest is in uncultivatable mountain areas. Above the tree line (about 1400m) there is little but grasses, shrubs and lichens. The richest wildlife are lynxes and other wildcats, marmots, otters, marten and mink. Pheasants, partridges, ducks, wild geese and other game birds are common in woods and marshes, and commonly hunted. Eagles, vultures, osprey, storks, bustards and grouse are rarer.  The damp continental climate over most of the Czech Republic is responsible for warm, showery summers; cold, snowy winters; and generally changeable conditions. July is the hottest month everywhere, January the coldest. From December through February, temperatures push below freezing even in the lowlands, and are bitter in the mountains. There is no real 'dry season', and the long, sunny hot spells of summer tend to be broken by sudden, heavy thunderstorms. Winter brings 40 to 100 days of snow on the ground (about 130 in the mountains), plus fog in the lowlands.  
europe_czech_republic_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Nationals of all Western European countries, Japan and New Zealand can visit the Czech Republic for up to 90 days, and UK citizens for up to 180 days, without a visa. US passport holders can stay for 90 days without a visa. Nationals of Australia, Canada, South Africa and many other countries must obtain a visa, which is good for a stay of between 90 and 30 days depending on your nationality.Health risks: encephalitis, Lyme diseaseTime:GMT/UTC +1Electricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism:17 million visitors When to Go  May, June and September are the prime visiting months, with April and October as chillier and sometimes cheaper alternatives. Most Czechs take their holidays in July and August when hotels and tourist sights are more than usually crowded, and hostels are chock-a-block with students, expecially in Prague and the Krkonose and Tatras mountain resort areas. Luckily, the supply of bottom end accommodation increases in large towns during this time, as student hostels are thrown open to visitors. Centres like Prague, Brno and the mountain resorts cater to visitors all year round. Elsewhere, from October or November until March or April, most castles, museums and other tourist attractions, and some associated accommodation and transport, close down.     Events  Practically every day is a saint's day in the Czech Republic, and 'special days', festivals and public holidays are widely acknowledged. On 30 April in Prague, the Czech version of Walpurgisnacht, Paleni Carodejnic (Burning of the Witches) is a pre-Christian festival for warding off evil. Politically incorrect witch burning is now replaced by all-night bonfire parties on Kampa Island and in suburban backyards. High culture follows for the remainder of the year with the Prazske jaro (Prague Spring) International Music Festival in May and June, the Prague International Book Fair also in May and the Mozart Festival in September. The Christmas-New Year season closes the year quietly for most of the Czech Republic, but Prague is overcome with tourist revelry during a fast and furious holiday season.    
europe_czech_republic_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  For large, tranquil forests, largely unpolluted and undamaged by acid rain, you can't go past the Sumava Mountains, stretching for about 125km along the border with Austria and Germany. Although only one small patch, the Boubin Virgin Forest, is regarded as completely untouched, the Sumava's pristine state still makes it a unique asset. The only wildlife left behind by past hunting are birds, though deer have been re-introduced. Wildflowers abound throughout the range.  The oldest mountains in the Czech Republic, the Sumava - actually two rounded ranges with high plains and moors between them - are ideal for walking or trekking, and although the mountainous terrain rules out cycling on most hiking trails, the many dirt roads are good for an adventurous and challenging ride. The mighty Vltava rises in the Sumava, as do five other major rivers. Two canals scar the region and there are five major lakes, so boating is not out of the question. Conditions are perfect for skiing and ski-touring.  
europe_denmark_activities.html:  Activities  Denmark prides itself on being a bicycle-friendly country. The country is crisscrossed with thousands of kilometers of established cycling routes, including 10 long-distance ones. The shortest of the stamina-testers runs for 100km around the perimeter of Bornholm, while the longest runs along the west coast of Jutland some 500km from the German border to Skagen. The most popular cycling tour in the Copenhagen area is the 12-kilometre ride north to Dyrehaven, much of it skirting the Øresund coast, but also darting down pleasant woodland trails.  All around the country, from the southern shores of Bornholm to the northernmost tip of Jutland, there are numerous swimming opportunities along sandy strands. Denmark also has some excellent spots for windsurfing (called 'surfing' in Danish), varying from the open sea, favoured by pros, to inland fjords and sheltered coastal inlets where calm waters are ideal for beginners. With over 7300km of coastline and hundreds of islands, Denmark offers excellent yachting possibilities. There are lots of calm-water fjords and protected seas, such as Smålandshavet (the area nestled between Zealand and Lolland), as well as the island-dotted waters south of Funen. Denmark abounds in streams and lakes, many of which are stocked with pike, perch and trout. The saltwater fishing possibilities are nearly endless; the most common saltwater fish are cod, mackerel, plaice and sea trout.  
europe_denmark_attractions.html:  Attractions  With a population of nearly 1.8 million, Copenhagen is Scandinavia's largest and liveliest city. It's an appealing and largely low-rise city comprised of block after block of period six-storey buildings. Church steeples punctuate the skyline, with only a couple of modern hotels shooting up to mar the view. The city's foremost historical and cultural sites remain concentrated in a relatively small area, while parks, gardens, water fountains and squares are scattered all over the city. A cosmopolitan city, Copenhagen abounds with sightseeing and entertainment possibilities. For music lovers and other revellers there's an active night scene, which rolls into the early hours of the morning.  The central railway station is flanked on the west by the main hotel zone and on the east by Tivoli amusement park. Opposite the northern corner of Tivoli is Rådhuspladsen, the city's central square and main bus transit point. Buses connect the airport, 9km south of the centre, with Central Station and Rådhuspladsen. Strøget, the world's longest pedestrian mall runs through the city centre between Rådhuspladsen and Kongens Nytorv, the square at the head of the colourful Nyhavn canal area.  Just north of the canal at Amalienborg Palace - home of the royal family since 1794 - you can watch the colourful changing of the guard when the queen is in residence. The palace's four nearly identical rococo mansions surround a central cobbled square and an immense statue of King Frederik V on horseback. One wing has been opened as a museum, exhibiting the royal apartments through three generations from 1863 to 1947. Classic churches to check out are Vor Frue Kirke, the city cathedral with its famed statues of Christ and the disciples by Bertel Thorvaldsen, and Christianshavn's Vor Frelsers Kirke, which has an elaborate Baroque altar and an equally elaborate carved pipe organ. For a magnificent city view, make the dizzying 400-step ascent up the church's 95-metre spiral tower - the last 160 steps run along the outside rim of the tower, narrowing to the point where they literally disappear at the top.  Copenhagen's museums include Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek, which has an excellent collection of art and sculpture from the Greek, Egyptian, Etruscan and Roman periods. The Nationalmuseet (National Museum) houses an extensive collection of Danish historical artefacts, ranging from the Upper Palaeolithic period to the 1840s. However, if you like your sightseeing a little lighter, then Tivoli, a century-old amusement park is located in the city centre. This tantalising entertainment park, which dates from 1843, is delightfully varied, if horrendously expensive. Visitors can ride the roller coaster, take aim at the shooting gallery, enjoy pantomimes and concerts or simply sit and watch the crowds wander by. Of course, a visit to Copenhagen is not complete without a taking a stroll or ferry ride to see the city's most famous icon, the Little Mermaid statue, which sits on the waterfront 10 minutes north of the city centre.  Most of the budget hotels are located along the western side of Central Station. Nyhavn, long a haunt for sailors and writers (including Hans Christian Andersen), is now more gentrified than seedy, with a line of trendy pavement cafes and restored gabled townhouses. Nyhavn is an invitingly atmospheric place to break for lunch or an afternoon beer. Nearby, Strøget has an abundance of cheap eateries, but we're talking burgers and dogs for the most part. North of Strøget, there are some good restaurants in the Latin Quarter. If you want to kick on, see street performers and hear live music, then cruise along Strøget. North of the city centre the Nørrebro neighbourhood has a number of clubs that attract a college-age crowd and have good bands. There are also some good'n'smoky jazz joints in Christianshavn.  
europe_denmark_environment.html:  Environment  Denmark is a small country, most of it occupying the Jutland peninsula. The southern border of Jutland adjoins Germany, Denmark's only land connection to the European mainland. Denmark is bordered on the west by the North Sea and on the east by the Baltic Sea. To the north, separating Denmark from Norway and Sweden, are the Skagerrak and Kattegat straits. In addition there are some 400 islands, only 90 of which are inhabited. Copenhagen is on Zealand, the largest island, sitting east of the main land mass. Most of Denmark is a lowland of fertile farms, rolling hills, beech woods and heather-covered moors. The country hasn't a single mountain; the highest elevation, at Yding Skovhøj in Jutland's Lake District, is a mere 173m.  Enduring centuries of deforestation and overgrazing, the Danish environment has been heavily exploited. In all, about 20% of farmland is at or near sea level, with much of it on environmentally sensitive wetlands made arable by draining the water with pumps. The landscape has been so altered that hardly any of Denmark's naturally winding streams remain intact, the rest having been artificially straightened. About 12% of Denmark has tree cover but primary forest is rare. The woodlands are largely deciduous with a prevalence of beech and oak trees. Also found are elm, hazel, maple, pine, birch, aspen, lime (linden) and chestnut. The largest wild species found in Denmark is the red deer, which can weigh over 200 kilos. Denmark also has roe deer, fallow deer, wild hare, foxes, squirrels, hedgehogs and badgers. There are nearly 400 bird species in Denmark, of which magpies, urban pigeons, coots, geese and ducks are the most common. Denmark's largest contiguous area of woodland is Rold Skov, a 77-square-kilometre public forest that contains Denmark's only national park, Rebild Bakker.  Considering its northerly location the climate is relatively mild, moderated by the effects of the warm Gulf Stream which sweeps northward along the west coast. Nonetheless it's safest to expect rain and grey skies in Denmark, thus guaranteeing a pleasant surprise when the sunshine does break through. The most pleasant months in which to visit are from May to August, when temperatures can hover around 25 degrees and daylight lasts almost 18 hours. In the coldest winter months of January and February, the average daily temperature lingers around freezing point - and while that may be cold, it's nearly 10 degrees Celsius above average for this latitude.  
europe_denmark_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most Western nationals, including Americans, citizens of EU countries, Australians, Canadians, New Zealanders, Malaysians, Singaporeans and most South Americans do not need a visa.Health risks: No Health risks.Time: GMT/UTC +1(+2 in summer)Electricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Considering its northern latitude, Denmark has a fairly mild climate all year round. Still, the winter months - cold and with short daylight hours - are certainly the least hospitable. Correspondingly, many tourist destinations come alive in late April, when the weather begins to warm up and the daylight hours start to increase, and by October they again become sleepers.  May and June can be delightful months to visit: the earth is a rich green accented with fields of flowers, the weather is comfortable and you'll beat the rush of tourists. While autumn can be pleasant, it's not nearly as scenic because the rural landscape has largely turned to brown.  High tourist season is July and August. There are open-air concerts, lots of street activity and basking on the beach. Other bonuses for travellers during midsummer are longer hours at museums and other sightseeing attractions. The last half of August can be a particularly attractive time to travel, as it still has summer weather but far fewer crowds.     Events  Denmark's main events are the hundred-plus music festivals which run almost nonstop, covering a broad spectrum of music that includes jazz, rock, blues, gospel, Irish, classical, country and Cajun. Beginning with Midsummer Eve bonfires in late June, some of the most popular festivals are the Roskilde Festival, northern Europe's largest rock music festival, held in late June or early July; the Midtfyns Festival in Ringe, held in early July, which features international rock, pop, world, folk and jazz musicians; the Copenhagen Jazz Festival, held for 10 days in early July, which is one of the world's major jazz festivals; the Copenhagen Summer Festival which features chamber and classical music concerts during the last week of July and the first two weeks of August; and the Tønder Festival, one of northern Europe's largest folk festivals, which is held at the end of August.  The nine-day Århus Festival, beginning on the first Saturday in September, turns that city into a stage for nonstop revelry, with music and drama performances of all sorts drawing hundreds of thousands of Danish and international visitors. The program also incorporates a Viking Festival complete with roving jesters, jousting and archery competitions, Viking-style ships, and traditional food, drink and merrymaking.    
europe_denmark_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Christiansø is a beautifully preserved 17th-century island fortress, an hour's sail north-east of Bornholm. The entire island is an unspoiled reserve - there are no cars or modern buildings and no cats or dogs. Part of a cluster of small granite islands known collectively as Ertholmene, Christiansø (population 100), is connected to its smaller sister island, Frederiksø, by a footbridge. Græsholm, north-west of Christiansø, is a wildlife refuge and an important breeding ground for razorbill, guillemot and other seabirds. Christiansø's Store Tårn (Great Tower), built in 1684, is an impressive structure with a 25 metre diameter. The tower's century-old lighthouse offers a splendid 360 degree view of the island.  The Lille Tårn (Little Tower) on Frederiksø dates from 1685, and is the site of the local-history museum. The ground floor displays fishing supplies, hand tools and iron works, while upstairs there are cannons, period furnishings, models and a local flora and fauna exhibit. Breezy days are perfect for walking along the fortified stone walls and cannon-lined batteries that surround the perimeter of the island. There are skerries with nesting seabirds and a secluded swimming cove on Christiansø's eastern side. Boats sail to Christiansø from Bornholm from May to late September, while the mailboat makes the trip year-round.  
europe_dodecanese_islands_activities.html:  Activities  Windsurfing, water-skiing, snorkelling, diving and swimming are the activities de jour in the Dodecanese - what else would you do when you've got the warm azure waters of the Aegean rippling in front of you? Windsurfing is the most popular watersport in the whole of Greece. You'll find sailboards for hire all over the place, and if you're a novice, most outfits that rent gear also give lessons. Rhodes, Karpathos and Kos are the best places. Water-skiing nuts will need to head to Rhodes or Kos to get their fix. Make sure your insurance is up to date!   Snorkelling, on the other hand, is enjoyable almost anywhere, and the Dodecanese offer some of the best spots in the Greek islands. Strap on your mask and fins at Ammoöpi on Karpathos, Telendos Islet near Kalymnos, Lipsi and anywhere off the coast of Kastellorizo. Diving is a slightly different matter. To protect the many underwater antiquities throughout the Aegean, you can only explore the depths with a diving school. Luckily, Rhodes has one. If you can drag yourself away from the beach, trekking, or simply wandering the pathways around islands, is another option - in the right season. July and August are a recipe for heatstroke, but April and May are just perfect. Yachting is incredibly popular - the Aegean rivals the Caribbean for its perfect sailing conditions. Oh, and did we mention sunbathing, napping and generally lazing around on the beach?  
europe_dodecanese_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  The beautiful historic island of Rhodes is an absolute must on any Greek island odyssey. In addition to its many gorgeous beaches, there are unspoilt villages to explore and the largest inhabited medieval town in Europe, Rhodes City's World Heritage-listed old town, to savour. Rhodes City has an impeccable pedigree - in 408 BC it was planned by the architect Hippodamos, who came to be regarded as the father of town planning. Today its heart is the old town - a mesh of Byzantine, Turkish and Latin architecture, with labyrinthine alleyways and bustling squares - enclosed within massive walls. It's divided into the Knights' Quarter, where the Knights of St John lived, and the Hora, where everyone else lived. You'll need to get up early to beat the crowds, but it's well worth the effort.  The imposing cobblestone Avenue of the Knights, with its inns and palaces, exudes the noble and forbidding aura of the crusades. Visit one of the area's museums, themselves housed in historic buildings, for a quick history lesson on what you're seeing. The Hora is home to various Ottoman legacies, significantly, the newly renovated, pink-domed Mosque of Süleyman, built in the early 16th century. The new town is also a roll call of ancient, as well as more recent, wonders: it features the Acropolis of Rhodes, which contains a restored 2nd century stadium and the Temple of Pythian Apollo, and over 600 discos and bars, which provide a modern-day connection to the traditional Dionysian spirit.  Just outside the city there's a myriad of other attractions. Lindos, 47km (29mi) from Rhodes, is a major tourist destination. Its Acropolis is the most famous of the Dodecanese's ancient cities, receiving 500,000 visitors a year. The Acropolis is spectacularly perched atop a 116m- (380ft) high rock. The site's most important ancient ruin is the 4th century Temple to Athena. Pedestrianised Lindos is well set up for visitors, with banks, restaurants, some (expensive) accommodation and even its very own donkey terminus to ferry people to and from the Acropolis. Get there early or late to avoid the worst of the crowds. If you're desperate for the smell of high-rise hotels, fast-food joints and bars, head to Rhodes' premier resort Faliraki Beach.  As well as its resorts, lush western Rhodes is home to some ancient ruins and pretty villages. Not far from Rhodes City, Ialyssos, used by Süleyman the Magnificent during his 16th-century siege of Rhodes, is a grand hotchpotch of Doric, Byzantine and medieval ruins. Further west, you can explore the extensive ruins of the Doric city of Kamiros. Towards Monolithos, you'll come across the ruined 16th-century Castle of Kastellos and the picturesque village of Siana, famed for its honey and souma, a local firewater. Monolithos itself is home to the spectacularly sited Castle of Monolithos, its Moni Georgiou and the pleasant Fourni Beach.  If you're heading down the west coast, give the windy beaches south of Monolithos a miss. Instead, plonk yourself down on a quiet stretch of the 11km (7mi) of almost uninterrupted beach between Gennadi and Plimmyri on the east side of the island. Gennadi, though becoming touristy, is still a charming stop-off, with narrow, winding streets of whitewashed houses and an olive-press museum. Take some time out from sun worshipping to see fine 13th-century frescoes at the nearby 9th-century Moni Thari, the island's first monastery, which has recently been re-established as a monastic community. Right on the southern tip of Rhodes, Prasonisi (Green Island) is a great spot for windsurfing.  The interior of Rhodes offers great scenery, traditional villages and very little traffic. If you have transport, take the time to do some exploring. One of the most scenic day trips you can make is the route to Mt Profitis Ilias and Salakos across the north central highlands. Conversely, Petaloudes (Valley of the Butterflies) is a package tour eco-disaster, with the number of butterflies (actually moths) at the site dwindling rapidly in response to the hordes of noisy human visitors. Leave the moths in peace and focus your attention instead on the many pretty villages that dot the central Rhodes area.  
europe_dodecanese_islands_environment.html:  Environment  Spread out along the coast of Western Turkey, the Dodecanese archipelago is much closer to Asia Minor than to mainland Greece. To its west lie the Cyclades Islands, while Crete sits southwest, its closest Dodecanese neighbour being Kassos. Although the Dodecanese group's name means 'Twelve Islands', there are actually quite a few more than this. Rhodes is the largest, and, along with Kos, the most developed. The islands range in size, shape, geography, flora, fauna and temperament, catering for all but the most fussy of travellers.  The Dodecanese islands, like the rest of Greece, are famous for their wildflowers. Rhodes has its very own peony variety, which grows nowhere else, and around 50 varieties of orchid. Come spring, throughout the islands you'll see plenty of iris, wild orchids, anemones, white cyclamen, lilies, poppies, gladioli, tulips, daisies and more. Also plentiful on the islands are giant reeds, which you may get lost among on your way to a beach; giant fennel, which grows to 3m (10ft); the tall yellow-horned poppy and sea quills.  You're unlikely to see much natural fauna on the Dodecanese Islands, although you will undoubtably catch sight of lizards, including the Rhodes dragon, basking on rocks, and dolphins frolicking alongside boats. You will, however, notice lots of birds. All the typical Mediterranean small birds - wagtails, tits, warblers, bee-eaters, larks, swallows, flycatchers, thrushes and chats - are present and accounted for in the archipelago.  The Dodecanese islands enjoy some of the best climatic conditions in the whole of Greece. Like Athens and the Cyclades, the islands have a typically Mediterranean climate, with hot, dry summers and milder winters. Rhodes, along with its Dodecanese neighbours, receives most of its rain in December-January, while July and August are dry as a bone. Temperatures soar in July-August and the heat becomes more bearable in December through to March. The southern islands tend to be warmer earlier and later than the rest of the group. Beaches on the northern side of the archipelago tend to be affected by the meltemi, or strong northerly winds, that sweep through in July and August.  
europe_dodecanese_islands_facts.html:  When to Go  Late spring/early summer and autumn are the best times to hit the Dodecanese Islands. Between Easter and mid-June is possibly the best time of all: the weather is pleasantly warm but not too hot, beaches and ancient sites aren't too crowded, public transport is close to full schedule, and accommodation is cheaper and easy to find. Mid-June until the end of August is high party season and, unless you have the patience of a saint and the cooling capabilities of a deep freeze, is best avoided. The heat can be unbearable (up to 40 C - more than 100 F - in the shade), the beaches and tourist sites are constantly crowded and accommodation is often booked solid. Between September (winding-down season) and the end of October conditions become ideal once more. Winter is pretty much a dead loss as most things close down.     Events  The Greeks have kefi in abundance - Zorba was the king of kefi - and you too can share in this lust for life by throwing yourself into the mix of religious, cultural and just plain celebratory events that make up the Greek calendar. One of your key opportunities for fun is the Greek carnival season, which takes place three weeks before the Lenten fasting period starts. Don a mask, and feast and dance with the locals. The Feast of Agios Konstantinos (20-21 May) honours the protector of Kastellorizo.  In June, fishing villages and ports, particularly Rhodes' harbour Mandraki, celebrate the long relationship between the Greek people and the sea in Navy Week. On 17 July the Feast of Agia Marina (St Marina) is celebrated with particular fervour on Kassos. The Feast of Panagia tou Harou on 22 August is the Lipsi's busiest time. August is also the month of Kos' Hippocratia Festival, so be prepared to drink to the health of the great medical man. Like Athens, Rhodes also boasts a nightly son et lumiere from mid-May to September and Greek folk dances from May to October.   Public holidays  1 January - New Year's Day 6 January - Epiphany February - First Sunday in Lent 25 March - Greek Independence Day March/April - Good Friday March/April - (Orthodox) Easter Sunday 1 May - Spring Festival/Labour Day 15 August - Feast of the Assumption 28 October - Ohi Day 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - St Stephen's Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to Dodecanese IslandsTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_dodecanese_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If you really want to play Robinson Crusoe and escape the tourist hordes, hightail it to Kastellorizo. The most eastern of the Greek Islands, this tiny, rocky islet is just 2.5km (1.5mi) from the Turkish coast and 118km (73mi) east of Rhodes. Kastellorizo's remoteness has ensured it has a character all its own and that tourism is low-key. It doesn't have any beaches, but there are rocky inlets from where you can swim and snorkel in crystal-clear sea. If you remember the 1991 film Mediterraneo you'll have some idea of what to expect.   Kastellorizo Town is the only settlement on the island, but it is largely a ghost town - most people emigrated in the mid-20th century in response to oppression and war. Behind a lively waterfront lie backstreets of abandoned houses overgrown with ivy, crumbling stairways and stony pathways. The impressive Knights of St John Castle, standing above the Kastellorizo Town quay, is the island's signature monument. The castle's museum houses a well-displayed collection and from the top of the pile there are great views across to Turkey. Other monuments include a Lycian tomb with a Doric facade - the only one in Greece - and the monasteries Moni Agiou Georgiou and Moni Agiou Stefanou. The island's ancient capital Paleokastro is nearby. You can fly or catch a ferry between Rhodes and the island.  
europe_dublin_activities.html:  Activities  Dublin is a beautiful, ancient and compact city, so it's no surprise that it features many great walking tours. Beautiful parks, history-rich suburbs and the best Georgian architecture in the world give travellers on foot some of the best city walks in the world. Dublin has its fair share of sporting pursuits as well. Hurling - a kind of aerial hockey that has to be seen to be believed - and Gaelic Football are Ireland's popular spectator sports. Fishing is enormously popular, and the coastal areas of Howth and Dun Laoghaire are great sea-fishing spots. Amazingly, the River Liffey has fair salmon fishing, and trout almost jumping onto your line near Clane, 20km (12mi) from the city centre. Golf, tennis, cycling, go-karting and bowling are also on offer. If you can take the less-than-warm temperatures, there are some beaches, such as the nearby Sutton, to dip your toe in, or you can do as Buck Mulligan did and swim in the Forty Foot Pool at Dun Laoghaire.  It's also not surprising that - given the weather - Dublin's best activities are enjoyed indoors. Whether your passion is fine art, literature, theatre or music, there are plenty of venues where you can enjoy yourself as a spectator or a practitioner. The activities and culture of Dublin regularly collide in informal spaces; for example, if Irish music is your scene you can usually find traditional pubs that - late in the night - turn into seis ns, or unscheduled jam sessions (all welcome). Many claim that enjoying a jar of the black stuff at such establishments is also a full-time activity, enjoyed by locals and out-of-towners alike.  
europe_dublin_attractions.html:  Attractions  Ireland's premier university was founded in 1592 by Elizabeth I, who hoped its distance from the European continent would save its students from being 'infected with popery'. Officially called the University of Dublin, the 16-hectare (40-acre) institution was the sole preserve of Protestants, and even when this restriction was lifted in 1793, the Catholic Church forbade its young from attending. This restriction was only wholly lifted in 1970!  The grounds of Trinity College are great to explore independently, although the College does run organised tours that are also recommended. Either way, the focus of any trip to the university is a visit to the famous Book of Kells, a magnificent 1200-year-old illustrated manuscript, and one of the oldest books in the world. About half a million people a year come to see the book - usually opened to an illustrated page and a page of text - so expect long, long queues in the peak tourist season. Once you've seen the book, don't rush off - there are other interesting buildings open to the public and worth visiting, including the Library Long Room, the Reading Room and a 45-minute audiovisual display called The Dublin Experience. Trinity College is located south of the River Liffey, near Pearse Station.  
europe_dublin_facts.html:  When to Go  It shouldn't come as a shock to learn that when the weather is at its warmest and the days at their longest (July and August), the crowds throng, prices soar and accommodation is tough to come by. The flip side is no crowds in winter, but short, bleak, cold days and many attractions closed as locals hibernate. If you're after the chance of good weather but hope to avoid crowds, try June or September. If you want to celebrate with the locals, plan to arrive just before St Patrick's Day (March 17), but be sure to book in advance.  Dublin's maximum temperature in July and August ranges from 15-20 C (60-70 F), so it's always wise to have a sweater or light coat. During January and February, the coldest months, daily temperatures range from 4-8 C (40-47 F). Major snowfalls are rare. There are about 18 hours of daylight in July and August; it's only truly dark after about 11pm. Despite being one of the driest parts of Ireland, Dublin gets rain on 150 days in a typical year and it often rains every day for weeks. There's much local terminology and humour about the rain - a `soft day', for instance, is a damp one. Bring an umbrella.     Events  There are two big events in Dublin each year that capture the imaginations of all who attend. St Patrick's Day is a celebration of traditional Irish culture highlighted by a parade through Dublin and a large ceilidh on St Stephen's Green that attracts thousands of revellers intent on dancing the day away. A more modern (or, rather, Modernist) celebration occurs on June 16 each year. Bloomsday celebrates the masterwork of James Joyce, a Dubliner, exile and perhaps the greatest writer of the 20th century. The events of Joyce's novel Ulysses are set on this day, and literary buffs can spend the day retracing the steps of Leopold Bloom, the book's protagonist. If you can get beyond the breakfast of kidneys, you'll be able to handle anything else the almost indecipherable book throws your way. And after a few pints, you might be feeling a bit 'stream of consciousness' by the end of the day as well.  Throughout the rest of the year, Dublin keeps jumping with a variety of musical, sporting and cultural events. March sees the Dublin Film Festival, while October hosts the Dublin Theatre Festival. Sports fans can gather at Croke Park in September for the All Ireland finals of both Hurling and Gaelic Football. If music is your bent, any time is a good time to be in Dublin, but both the Howth Jazz Festival (Easter Monday) and the Temple Bar Blues Festival (July) are well worth your time.   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 17 March - St Patrick's Day March/April - Good Friday March/April - Easter Monday 1 May - May Day Holiday first Monday in June - June Holiday first Monday in August - August Holiday last Monday in October - October Holiday 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - St Stephen's Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to DublinTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_dublin_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  About 45km (28mi) southwest of Dublin is scenic Kildare, a small cathedral and market town in County Kildare. The cathedral is St Brigid's, named after one of Ireland's favourite saints, with its origins as a religious centre founded in the 5th century. A west-facing stained-glass portrait of Brigid and fellow saints Patrick and Columbia is one of the cathedral's main features, although the most significant is the tomb of Walter Wellesley, a bishop of Kildare in the early 16th century.  A few kilometres south of town is the National Stud, the government-sponsored cornerstone of the country's horse-breeding industry. There are guided tours of the stud and there's also a museum, which pays homage to Irish equine greats and to the role of the horse in Irish history. Right next door to the stud are the Japanese Gardens, an attempt at philosophical landscaping, which uses a series of landmarks to signify the journey of life. The gardens are regarded as one of the best examples of the Japanese style in Europe. Bus services from Dublin take about an hour to reach Kildare; trains run about every 40 minutes from Heuston station and take about 30 minutes for the 55km (34mi) trip.  
europe_edinburgh_activities.html:  Activities  Edinburgh boasts a wide variety of recreational activities. Favorite outdoor venues include Holyrood Park, Meadow Park and Bruntsfield Links. There are plenty of good walks, such as following the Water of Leith for a relaxed stroll through the city or climbing up to Arthur's Seat. Cycling is made easier around the city and out into the surrounding countryside with Edinburgh's network of signposted cycle paths. Golf is a favorite pastime and there are lots of courses around Edinburgh. The Bawsinch Nature Reserve is a great spot for bird watching, as are other places a little further afield. You can horse ride around Edinburgh, and the Firth of Forth provides sheltered waters for all kinds of sailing. Europe's longest dry slope can be found in the Pentland Hills, taking care of all skiing needs, sort of. Swimming is a bit chilly in the Firth of Forth, but indoor alternatives do the trick nicely.  
europe_edinburgh_attractions.html:  Attractions  Edinburgh Castle dominates the city centre, sitting astride the core of an extinct volcano, its three sides scoured almost vertical by glacial action. Although the castle looks impregnable, it often changed hands between the Scots and English throughout the centuries. By the mid-18th century, however, the castle looked much as it does today. Partly in thanks to Sir Walter Scott, in the 19th century it began to recover its importance as a Scottish symbol.  Visitors enter from the Esplanade, a parade ground where the changing of the guard occurs on the hour. Sites within the castle proper include Mills Mount Battery, where a gun salute takes place on weekdays; St Margaret's Chapel, the oldest building in Edinburgh; the Palace, built between the 15th and 16th centuries; and the Scottish United Services Museum, which houses displays on the history of Scottish regiments. The castle is overrun with tourists, and although the views are great, you may decide it's more impressive from the outside looking in.  
europe_edinburgh_facts.html:  When to Go  The climate in Edinburgh is best from May to September, but whenever you go, you're likely to see both sun and rain. In summer, daylight hours are long, and the evenings seem endless. In winter, it's cold and daylight hours are short, but with so much going on, Edinburgh is still worth visiting. Note that the city becomes impossibly crowded during the main festival period - August to early September, and Hogmanay (around 1 January) - so make reservations well ahead of time if you plan to visit then.     Events  They don't call Edinburgh the festival city for nothing. The highlight of Scotland's calendar is the Edinburgh International Festival, held every August. Since its inception in 1947, it has grown into one of the world's largest and most important arts festivals. The Fringe Festival began unofficially at the same time and grew in tandem to become the largest such event in the world. Over 500 amateur and professional groups present every possible kind of avant-garde performance in venues all around the city. Also held in the same period is the Edinburgh Military Tattoo, which takes place on the Esplanade of Edinburgh Castle. The show is an extravaganza of daredevil displays, regimental posturing and swirling bagpipes and ends with a single piper playing a lament on the battlefields. Hogmanay, the Scottish celebration of the New Year, is another major fixture in Edinburgh's festival calendar with concerts, street parties and a massive bonfire on Calton Hill. There's also the frenzy of other international fests: Edinburgh International Jazz and Blues Festival in July-August, Edinburgh International Book Festival in August, Edinburgh International Film Festival and a whole lot more in between.   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 2 January - New Year Bank Holiday 2nd Monday in April - Spring Bank Holiday 1st Monday in May - May Day Holiday 3rd Monday in May - Victoria Day 3rd Monday in September - Autumn Holiday 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to EdinburghTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_edinburgh_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Attractive Dunbar is a holiday resort and small fishing port on the east coast, 48km (30mi) from Edinburgh. It was the site of two important battles, both resulting in Scottish losses. Edward I invaded in 1296 and General Monck defeated a larger Scots army in 1650, facilitating Cromwell's entry into Edinburgh. John Muir (1838-1914), pioneer conservationist and 'father' of the US national park service, was born here. The John Muir House, the man's childhood home, has a small exhibition and audio-visual display on his life. A more adventurous option in the area is offshore diving to sites like Johnson's Hole or Old Harbour reef.  
europe_england_activities.html:  Activities  England may be densely populated but it is also crisscrossed by footpaths and rights of way, which provide access to just about every nook and cranny of the country if you want to take a short stroll. The more energetic should tackle at least one long-distance walk. The best of the hikes include the South-West Coast Path around the dramatic shores of Somerset, Devon, Cornwall and Dorset (up to 14 days); the picturesque Cotswold Way (five days); and the dramatic moorland and coastal scenery of the Cleveland Way (up to a week). Cycling is another great way to get off the beaten track and down some unexplored country lanes; the main roads are best avoided. The best beaches for swimming are in Devon and Cornwall; the best surf is on Cornwall's west coast, notably at Newquay.  
europe_england_attractions.html:  Attractions  London is a cosmopolitan mixture of the Third and First worlds, of chauffeurs and beggars, of the establishment, the avowedly working class and the avant-garde. Unlike comparable European cities, much of London looks unplanned and grubby, but that is part of its appeal. Visiting London is like being let loose on a giant-sized Monopoly board clogged with traffic. Even though you probably won't know where the hell you are, at least the names will look reassuringly familiar. The city is so enormous, visitors will need to make maximum use of the underground train system: unfortunately, this dislocates the city's geography and makes it hard to get your bearings. Doing some travelling by bus helps fit the city together.  
europe_england_environment.html:  Environment  England is the largest of the three political divisions within the island of Great Britain. Bound by Scotland to the north and Wales to the west, England is no more than 29km (18mi) from France across the narrowest part of the English Channel. Much of England is flat or low-lying. In the north is a range of limestone hills, known as the Pennines, to the west are the Cumbrian Mountains and the Lake District. South of the Pennines is the heavily-populated Midlands, and in the south-west peninsula, known as the West country, is a plateau with granite outcrops, good dairy farming and a rugged coastline. The rest of the country is known as the English Lowlands, a mixture of farmland, low hills, an industrial belt and the massive city of London.  England was once almost entirely covered with woodland, but tree cover is now the second lowest in Europe (after Ireland). Since early this century the government has been planting conifers to reverse this situation, but the pines have turned the soils around them acid and destroyed large areas of ancient peatland. Other common trees include oak, elm, chestnut, lime (not the citrus variety), ash and beech. Although there isn't much tall flora around, you'll see plenty of lovely wildflowers in spring - snowdrops, daffodils, bluebells, primroses, buttercups and cowslips all lend a touch of colour to the English countryside. On the moors there are several varieties of flowering heathers.  The red deer is the largest mammal in England, and there are plenty of them (as well as fallow and roe deer) around. Foxes prosper, and if you're lucky you may see a badger or hedgehog. Introduced American grey squirrels are forcing out the smaller local red variety. Rabbits are everywhere, while smaller rodents such as the shrew, harvest mouse and water vole are less common (but frightfully cute). England's only poisonous snake, the adder, is rare and protected. Birdwatching is a popular pastime in Britain, but while the numbers and diversity of coastal bird species do not appear to be in danger, the same cannot be said for other British birds - a number of species that were quite common only 25 years ago are rapidly dwindling because of habitat destruction.  England's national parks cover about 7% of the country and include Dartmoor, Exmoor, the Lake District, the Peak District, the Yorkshire Dales, the North York Moors, the New Forest, the Broads and Northumberland. English national parks are not wilderness areas, but they do include areas of outstanding national beauty - they also tend to be privately owned and provide an antidote to the hectic pace of many cities.  England's climate is mild and damp, with temperatures moderated by the light winds that blow in off its relatively warm seas. Temperatures inland don't get much below freezing in winter (December to February), or much above 30 C (86 F) in summer (June to August). The north is the coldest area; London, the south-east and the West Country are the warmest. Rainfall is greatest in hilly areas and in the West Country. You can expect cloudy weather and light drizzle in any part of England at any time.  
europe_england_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: EU citizens may live and work free of any immigration controls. Citizens of the USA, Canada, Australia, South Africa and New Zealand are generally allowed to stay six months without a visaHealth risks: NoneTime: GMT/UTC or BST (British Summer Time), which is GMT/UTC +1Electricity: 240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric (except beer, which is measured in pints) When to Go  Anyone who spends any extended period of time in England will sympathise with the locals' obsession with the weather, although in relative terms the climate is mild and the rainfall is not spectacular. The least hospitable months for visitors are November to February - it's cold and the days are short. March and October are marginal - there's more daylight but it can still be very cold. April to September are undoubtedly the best months, and this is, unsurprisingly, when most sights are open, and when most people visit. July and August are the busiest months, and best avoided if at all possible. The crowds on the coast, at the national parks, in London and popular towns like Oxford, Bath and York have to be seen to be believed.     Events  For the sporty, the traditional Oxford/Cambridge University Boat Race is held in London on the River Thames in late March; the famous but gruelling Grand National steeplechase takes place at Aintree, Liverpool, on the first Saturday in April; the FA Cup final takes place in May; Lawn Tennis Championships, complete with strawberries & cream and tantrums by major players, take place at Wimbledon in late June; the champagne-quaffing set head for the Henley Royal Regatta at Henley-on-Thames also in June; and the Cowes Week yachting extravaganza pushes off on the Isle of Wight in late July.  Those uninterested in ball games and fast-moving animals should check out the Chelsea Flower Show at London's Royal Hospital in May; the Trooping of the Colour pageantry on the Queen's birthday in London in mid-June; the bacchanalian Glastonbury Festival music extravaganza which swamps Glastonbury's paddocks in June; and the riotous (in the best possible sense) Caribbean carnival in London's Notting Hill in late August.    
europe_england_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The balmy Scilly Isles, 28 miles south-west of Land's End, comprise 140 rocky islands slap in the middle of the warm Gulf Stream. The mild climate enables plants and trees that grow nowhere else in Britain to flourish, and growing flowers for the mainland is an important industry. The pace of life on the five inhabited islands is slow and gentle, and there's no need for a car because the largest island (St Mary's) only measures around three by two miles. Most of the islands have white, sandy beaches, gin-clear waters and a swag of shipwrecks, making it attractive territory for divers. The major tourist attraction is the subtropical gardens at Tresco Abbey on Tresco. The best beaches are on St Martin's, but the most powerful sight is Bryher's Hell Bay in the middle of an Atlantic gale. Visitors can fly to St Mary's from Land's End, Exeter, Newquay, Plymouth and Bristol, or catch a boat from Penzance.  
europe_estonia_activities.html:  Activities  Estonia's famous bogs offer such exotic activities as bog walking and canoeing. Popular bogging spots include the Soomaa National Park in the south-western corner of the country and the Endla Nature Reserve in the north. The Käsmu Sea Museum in Lahemaa National Park (on the central northern coast) arranges sailing, rowing and diving summer camps, as well as traditional one-log canoe-building camps where you can fashion your own haabja. You can also explore the bogs of Soomaa National Park via canoe and haabja.   Bird-watchers flock to Estonia and one of their principle targets is the Matsalu Nature Reserve, which arranges guided day hikes. Another major birding area is the Käina Bay Bird Reserve on the south-eastern coast of the island of Hiiumaa, where over 70 species breed.  Estonia offers excellent winter sports. You can ski and snowboard at the Kuutsemäe and Väike-Munamäe Sports Centres, both near Otepää in south-eastern Estonia. Also in the south-east, motorised snow-bike expeditions are available from V ru.  
europe_estonia_attractions.html:  Attractions  In few places in Europe does the aura of the 14th and 15th centuries survive intact the way it does in Tallinn's Old Town jumble of medieval walls and turrets, needling spires and winding, cobbled streets. Nevertheless, Estonia's capital is so modernised that it's been dubbed 'a suburb of Helsinki'.   Toompea, the hill on which Tallinn is centred, is a treasure trove for tourists. It's home to the 19th century Russian Orthodox Alexandr Nevsky Cathedral; Toompea Castle, the meeting place of Estonia's parliament, the Riigikogu; Toomkirik, the Lutheran cathedral founded in 1233; the Estonian Art Museum, housed in an 18th century noble's house near the Toomkirik; and Kiek-in-de-Kök, a tall, stout tower built around 1475.  The park at Kadriorg, 2km (1.2mi) east of Tallinn's Old Town, is pleasant and wooded with oak, lilac and horse chestnut trees. Together with the baroque Kadriorg Palace, it was designed for the Russian Tsar, Peter the Great, by Italian Niccolo Michetti. The palace was built between 1718 and 1736 and the great man himself even laid three of its bricks. Behind the palace there's the little cottage that housed Peter as his palace was being built. It now houses the Peter the Great Home Museum.  Tallinn has a good selection of accommodation, but it's important to book ahead in summer, even at hostels. Raekoja Plats (Town Hall Square) in the Old Town, is the hub of Tallinn's dining and cafe scene. In summer, the entire length and breadth of Raekoja Plats buzzes with temporary open-air cafes and bars, all of which sell light snacks, hotdogs, traditional kotlett and lots of Saku beer. The Old Town is also the setting for Tallinn's booming nightclub scene.  
europe_estonia_environment.html:  Environment  Estonia is the northernmost and smallest of the Baltic states - it's about the size of Switzerland. It borders Russia on the east and Latvia on the south. To the west are the Baltic Sea and the Gulf of Riga, and the Gulf of Finland lies to the north. Helsinki is just 80 km (50mi) away across the Gulf of Finland; St Petersburg is 320km (200mi) east of Tallinn, Estonia's capital, which is on the north-western coast.  Given that the country's pretty flat, you can see a lot of it from the highest point - the 317m (1040ft) Suur Munamägi, in the south-east - without getting a nosebleed. Lake Peipus, on the Estonia-Russia border, is the 4th largest in Europe at 3500 sq km (1400 sq mi). Islands make up nearly 10% of Estonia's territory; the biggest are Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, both off the western coast. Forests cover nearly half the country, and about a quarter of Estonia is wetland - some of the peat bogs are 6m (20ft) deep.  Estonia's rich flora includes 1470 varieties of indigenous plants, while its fauna features thriving populations of large European mammals, among them roe deer and elk. Estonia also has 10 species of rare and protected amphibians. A number of large raptors, including golden eagle (250 pairs), white tailed eagle, spotted eagle and eagle owl are protected, as is the rare black stork. One of the unique sights of the Estonian forest is the European flying squirrel.  The climate is on the cool and damp side of temperate, verging on continental as you move inland where, in winter, it can be a few degrees colder than the coast or, in summer, a few degrees warmer. Winters are fairly severe. The waters around Hiiumaa and Saaremaa Islands freeze over in mid-January and usually don't thaw for 3 months, during which time the entire country is covered in snow. Rain is heaviest in September and lightest in spring.  
europe_estonia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Estonia requires visas from all nationalities except citizens of most northern, central and eastern European countries, Australia, New Zealand, Japan and the USAHealth risks: NoneTime: GMT/UTC plus 2 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 2.5 million visitors a year When to Go  Given the severity of Estonian winters (December to March) and the dampness of its autumns, the best time to visit the country is in the late spring (April and May) and summer (June to early September). July and August are the warmest months, with daily highs reaching 30 C (86 F). If you're keen on skiing, skating or ice fishing, though, winter is a great time to go. Besides the cold, the main drawback to visiting during winter is the limited number of daylight hours.     Events  Two of Estonia's major festivals only come around every few years. Tallinn's July Baltika Folk Festival is a week of music, dance, exhibitions and parades focusing on Baltic and other folk traditions. The All-Estonian Song Festival, which climaxes with a choir of up to 30,000 people singing traditional Estonian songs on a vast open-air stage to an audience of 100,000, is held every five years.  Summers are packed with events. Estonians celebrate their folk culture in mid-June during Memme-taadi Days, held in Tallinn. The night of 23 June is the eve of Jaanipäev, the climax of midsummer events. It's considered a night of magical powers and the traditional way of celebrating it is to head out into the countryside to dance, sing and make merry around bonfires, and seek the mystical fern flower which is said to only bloom that night and bring luck to anyone who finds it. Many Estonians take a holiday during the week around Jaanipäev. The Viru Säru folk festival is held at Lahemaa National Park during the first weekend in July in even numbered years.  Estonia's most famous ghost, Haapsalu, is said to appear at August's White Lady Festival. Later in the month a new king of the traditional Setu kingdom is appointed during the Day of the Setu Kingdom. It gets very quiet during November's Time of Spirits, when Estonians remember their past and their dead, and spirits roam freely through the land.    
europe_estonia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If you've always dreamed of paddling through a bog looking for witches, this is the place for you. According to local lore, witches have enjoyed the isolation of the bogs for centuries. The only way to explore the park is by canoe or haabja, a traditional Finnish boat carved out of a single aspen tree. You can fish and camp in the park, and there are haabja-building courses available that have you test your very own log in the bog. The park is located in the south-western corner of Estonia; its headquarters are at Viljandi, accessible by bus or train from Tallinn.  
europe_faroe_islands_activities.html:  Activities  There are great places for hiking and trekking in the Faroes. Before the road system existed, a series of cairns marked the way across country for walkers, and many of the cairns survive throughout the islands today. As well as taking warm and waterproof clothing, trekkers should carry a compass and, if possible, topographic maps of the area. Fishing is less restricted than in Iceland, and if you're trekking and camping in the highlands it may be a good idea to bring fishing tackle to help supplement your diet. Although it's not a diver's mecca, you can go diving, and shipwreck exploring and spearfishing are possible with a qualified instructor.  
europe_faroe_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  T rshavn is high on picturesque charm but low on much action of any kind, so if you're looking to party you'll be disappointed. But a stroll around Tinganes, the small peninsula where the town began a thousand years ago, is enough to endear it to just about anyone. It has narrow streets and is very busy, conjuring up the heyday of 'wonderful Copenhagen' at the height of its maritime trade. The modern town centre is focused on the area between Tinganes and Wintersgøta, just up the hill from the harbours on either side of the peninsula. On the far end of Tinganes stands Skansapakk si, an impressive building that once served as an artillery depot. During the war with Britain in 1808, the British emptied it and threatened to destroy T rshavn if the town did not surrender.   Munkastovan is a heavy stone-walled former monastery, built in the 15th century and one of the few buildings to escape a devastating fire in 1673. The other building to escape the flames was Leigub in, the king's storehouse, where agricultural goods paid as taxes were stored before shipping to the mainland.  The most impressive museum in town is probably the Historical Museum. It displays religious and maritime artefacts, boats, and household, fishing, navigation and farming implements from the Viking age to the present. Nordic House is an architecturally interesting building with a turf roof, and its interior is used as a theatre and a conference, concert and exhibition hall. It houses visiting exhibitions from around Scandinavia, and has a library and cafeteria. On Tuesday nights in summer, it hosts 'Faroese evenings' for tourists. On the northern edge of Vi arlin Park is Listask lin, the Faroese Museum of Art, with a fine collection of works by Faroese painters and sculptors. The museum also hosts theatrical and musical performances and special exhibitions.  
europe_faroe_islands_environment.html:  Environment  Slightly smaller than greater London, the 18 islands of the Faroes lie in the north-eastern Atlantic about 400km (248mi) south-east of Iceland and 280km (174mi) north of Scotland. In the north are a group of rugged, rib-like islands that offer spectacular scenery, but most of the Faroes' population lives on Streymoy and Eysturoy in the heart of the island group.  The islands are the eroded remnants of a volcanic mid-Atlantic continent that rose after North America, Greenland and Europe went their separate ways. Other parts of this long-disappeared continent include the Westfjords of Iceland, County Antrim of Northern Ireland, parts of southern Greenland and bits of Scotland. During the Great Ice Age, all of the Faroes were blanketed with ice, and when the icecap finally melted its remnants gouged out the cirques, valleys, sounds and fjords so typical of the islands today.  The only place you'll see trees is in T rshavn, and despite proud claims that the Vi arlund Park, with its stands of birch, beech and spruce, has the islands' only forest, the trees grow taller in town where the buildings shelter them. The main vegetation growing on the islands is grasses, sedges, mosses, fungi and lichens. More complex plants, such as wildflowers and ferns, tend to grow in people's gardens or in sheltered ravines where the ubiquitous sheep can't reach them.  Although the Faroes are home to several introduced pest species such as rats, mice and rabbits, the bird life is what leaves you gobsmacked. The bird population is probably the densest in the world, thanks to the profusion of plankton and fish. Forty-nine species of bird breed regularly on the islands, and another 30 do so from time to time. Among them are puffins, which are netted and eaten in large numbers, guillemots, fulmars, great skuas, razorbills, gannets, cormorants and kittiwakes. Inland, there are great colonies of eider ducks, golden plovers, rock doves and oystercatchers. Two hundred more species visit the islands occasionally. Other land dwellers include sheep (of which there are nearly twice as many as people) and cattle.  Large pods of pilot whales swim around Faroe waters, as do bottlenose whales, fin whales, killer whales, dolphins and porpoises. The pilot whales are subjected to the grindadr p, a traditional form of carnage the islanders wreak on them where they round up whole pods by motorboat, then beach and slaughter them. While many foreigners may consider the practice horrific, most islanders regard it as much a part of local culture as Christmas. Grey seals live in caves on the east coast and, possibly having seen the grindadr p once too often, are rarely seen.  Climate-wise, it's as cold and stormy as you'd expect any small islands in the middle of the North Atlantic to be. You can expect precipitation in the form of snow, hail, sleet, drizzle or just plain rain on about 280 days of the year. Thanks to the tropical current of the Gulf Stream, water at about 10 C (50 F) sweeps past the islands all year, which helps moderate the climate and provides ideal conditions for fish and plankton.  
europe_faroe_islands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of Nordic countries need only a valid identification card to enter, and citizens of countries not requiring visas, including Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Japan, the USA and EU countries require only a valid passport for stays of up to three months.Health risks: HypothermiaTime: GMT/UTCElectricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Most tourism takes place in the summer months between 1 June and 1 September, and you'll rarely need to book ahead as the Faroes are still a long way from the well trodden tourist haunts in the rest of Europe. The end of July is probably the best time as you'll catch the lavsøka festivities.     Events  Counting Christmas, New Year and Easter, the Faroes have no fewer than 20 public holidays, ranging from the religious to Labour Day. The Faroese National Day is  lavsøka, celebrated on 28 and 29 July, when the normally reserved Faroese really cut loose with drinking binges and rowdy behaviour. The festival is named in honour of St Olav, who pressed for acceptance of Christianity in Scandinavia, however it probably dates back to pagan times and adopted St Olav's name as a convenient way of lending it Christian sanction. Highlights include a rowing competition in which villages compete against each other, horse races, art exhibitions, chain dances and religious services. In mid-July, the western Faroes host the annual two-day Vestanstevna, which follow more or less the same agenda as the lavsøka.    
europe_faroe_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Sandoy is the least rugged of the Faroes, but it boasts the country's only sand dunes and they make great hiking, especially around the west coast and in the roadless north-east. On the pass above the town of Skopun are two beautiful lakes, Nor ara H lsavatn and Heimara H lsavatn, both popular with trout anglers. You can do a wonderful trek west from Skopun to the Cliffs of Dj paberg. A longer and rougher walk takes you along the cliffs of the south coast to Søltuvik and on to Sandur, a village sitting on a small peninsula between two lakes, Sandsvatn and Gr th svatn, and two bays, Sandsv gur and Gr tvik. At the head of Sandsv gur, between the village and the mountain, is an area of sand dunes and a beach of black basalt sands. The Sandur Church has a fascinating history, and the site has been used as a parish centre since the 11th century. Archaeological remains show that at least six consecutive churches have existed on the site since.  The 'troll woman's finger', or Trøllkonufingur, is a much-photographed sea stack north of the tiny settlement of Skarvanes. There's no public transport to the rock, but it's an easy 4km (2.5mi) hike north of the tiny settlement of Skarvanes. Sk lav k is known as the home town of the Faroes' most renowned writer, He in Br . It's also the start of a scenic walk over the mountain Hei afjall to H sav k, one of the Faroes' most charming villages. It was settled very early in Faroese history, but never really gained importance after the Plague decimated its population in the 14th century. It has a lovely, dark sandy beach, and just north of town are the ruins of a 14th-century longhouse.  
europe_finland_activities.html:  Activities  You have a legal right to walk, cycle, paddle a canoe or even camp almost anywhere in Finland. Nordic skiing is popular and there are cross-country trails of varying difficulty. Downhill skiers go to Lapland, or to resorts such as Koli in North Karelia or Ruka in Kuusamo.   Hiking or trekking is best from June to September (May in the south). Wilderness huts line the northern trails and are available without charge. Most of them have unlocked doors, basic bunks, cooking facilities, leftover dry food, a pile of dry firewood and even a wilderness telephone. You should always leave the hut as it was - replace the used firewood and clean the place. For the easiest hikes, go to areas such as Ruunaa in Karelia or try a national park. Routes such as Karhunkierros and the Lemmenjoki are very scenic.   Boating can be enjoyed on both sea and lake but the prime sailing region, the Turku archipelago, is demanding to navigate. Canoeing is best on the lakes or around Turunmaa and Åland archipelagos in summer. There are wild rapids in Lapland and North Karelia.  
europe_finland_attractions.html:  Attractions  Helsinki, the capital of Finland, is the centre of cultural, financial and economic activity. Its green parks and waterways, fresh sea winds with seagulls flying over the busy market square, and many open-air cafes make Helsinki a pleasant place to visit in summer. The city retains a small-town feel: there are no high-rise buildings, and the market square is still surrounded by 19th century architecture. Built on a peninsula, Helsinki is linked by ferry to Suomenlinna Island in the Gulf of Finland, which is perfect for picnicking daytrippers.  Helsinki contains some of the most notable art museums in Finland. The national art foundation's Ateneum is the principal gallery and covers Finnish and international art from the 19th century. The National Museum, also located in the city centre, has extensive collections of Sami and Finno-Ugric ethnological artefacts. Johnny Head-in-the-airs will notice the Kalevala-inspired frescos on the ceiling of its main hall. The Raitioliikennemuseo, with a dozen old rattlers, is a delightful tram museum. Located in an old depot, it depicts Finnish street life in decades past. The Rock Church, hacked out of solid stone, attracts many visitors seeking a few bars of albino gospel. There are concerts here as well as services. West of the city centre in the dormitory town of Espoo is the magnificent studio of Gallen-Kallela, the notable Finnish painter.  Ferries and motorboats shuttle from Helsinki to Suomenlinna Island, where you can ramble around the ruins of the mighty fortress or look around its several museums. The Ehrensvärd Museum, which covers the history of the fortress from Swedish heyday to mayday, is the best. If you want to do a boy's-own battle reenactment, a torch is all you need to squeeze that body through bunkers and caves on either side of the fort.  Helsinki has numerous budget hostels in the city centre, although it isn't a bad place to unroll your sleeping bag outdoors in summer. There are plenty of hamburger restaurants, kebab joints and grills in the city centre, but those who baulk at using their body as a grease trap can try one of the cafes south of the centre or around the market square. Theatres in Helsinki have shows in Finnish, but you may prefer opera and ballet, as performances will be incomprehensible in any language. Helsinki also has its fair share of good pubs and clubs for midnight ramblers.  
europe_finland_environment.html:  Environment  With an area of 338,000 sq km, Finland is the seventh largest country in Europe. Located between Sweden and Russia, with which it shares a 1269km border, it also shares one with Norway's arctic north (716km) and Sweden's north-west (586km). The Gulf of Finland separates southern Finland from Estonia. Forests cover two-thirds of Finland, the arctic zone one-third. Post-glacial lakes are the country's dominant feature, and if marshes and bogs are also counted, water covers about 10% of the country. Finland's highest point, the Halti, rises 1328m above sea level.  Finnish flora is surprisingly rich and varied during the dynamic period between late May and September. Some low-lying valleys in the south resemble jungles by late July. The three main types of forest are pine, spruce and birch. Deciduous forests, of which birch is the most typical, are the most varied in terms of flora. The brown bear is the largest furball you will come across in Finnish forests; other mammals include elks, foxes, lynxes, lemmings and hedgehogs. Reindeer abound in north Finland, and beavers are quite common. There are over 300 species of birds including black grouse, whooper cranes and birds of prey, such as ospreys. Chaf finches and willow warblers are the two most common species in forests.  Finland can get mighty cold - in the south it gets down to -15 C in January and February, while in the north it's often below -30 C during the winter months. It's also dark most of the day during this time. When summer rolls around and the midnight sun does its thing, expect about 15 C in the north and around 20 C in the south (although it can get above 30 C).  
europe_finland_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most western nationals, including Americans, citizens of EU countries, Australians, Canadians, New Zealanders, Malaysians, Singaporeans and most South Americans do not need a visa.Health risks: Slippery pavements. If you're mushroom picking, make sure you know what you're eating.Time: GMT/UTC +2Electricity:220V, 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 2.5 million visitors per year When to Go  Whatever time of year you visit Finland, there's something happening. Most museums and galleries are open year-round, and there is as much to do in the depths of winter as there is at the height of summer. Nevertheless, you'll probably have a better time if you come in the warmer months, either in summer or anytime from May to September. As well as the advantages of warm weather, summer is the time of the midnight sun. Winter north of the Arctic Circle is a chilly confluence of strange bluish light and encroaching melancholy. Despite snow falls from November, it stays pretty sludgy until late winter: skiing isn't great until February, the coldest month, and you can ski in Lapland right through to June.     Events   Midsummer's Day (Juhannus) is the most important annual event for Finns. People leave cities and towns for summer cottages to celebrate the longest day of the year. Bonfires are lit and lakeside merrymakers swim and row boats. Enthusiastic alcohol consumption is also a feature of midsummer partying. The Pori Jazz Festival in July is one of the country's most popular festivals, but the Savonlinna Opera Festival, held at medieval Olavinnlinna Castle, is the most famous. Some of the best (and the most international) festivals are the most remote: check out chamber music in Kuhmo, or folk music in Kaustinen (near Kokkola). For rock, there are big festivals during the Midsummer weekend, and big annual events, such as Ruisrock, the longest-running of rock festivals, at Turku in July. On the lighter side, check out the Sleepyhead Day, where on 27 July the laziest person in the towns of Naantali and Hanko is thrown into the sea. Finland's strangest event is the annual wife-carrying championship held every July in tiny Sonkajärvi.    
europe_finland_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The most interesting thing to see in idyllic Kristinestad (Kristiinankaupunki in Finnish) - founded in 1649 - is the town itself, where old customs still survive. The narrowest street in town, known as Catwhipper's Lane, is only 299cm wide, making it one of the narrowest streets in Finland. In the 1880s, in an effort to contain the plague, the town employed a cat-catcher to kill sick cats - hence the name of the street. In the centre of town is Ulrika Eleonora's Church, built in the 18th century. It's a typical coastal church, with votive ships hanging from the ceiling. The town's Maritime Museum houses a private collection of sea-related items collected by an old sea captain. Kristinestad sits along the west coast of Finland and can be reached by buses from Pori, Vaasa and Tampere.  
europe_florence_activities.html:  Activities  Florence isn't exactly an adrenaline-junky's delight, catering more to addicts of caffeine, expensive shoes and naked babies with wings. If you're desperate for a leg stretch and a bit of fresh air, a stroll around the Giardino di Boboli is recommended - the views from here aren't bad either. You can also take full and half-day mountain bike tours of the countryside around Florence, or rent a bike and tangle with the traffic in town.  
europe_florence_attractions.html:  Attractions  The remarkable Duomo, with its pink, white and green marble fa ade and characteristic dome, dominates the city's skyline. The building took almost two centuries to build (and even then the fa ade wasn't completed until the 19th century), and is the fourth-largest cathedral in the world. The enormous dome was designed by Brunelleschi, and its interior features frescoes and stained-glass windows by some of the Renaissance-era's best: Vasari, Zuccari, Donatello, Uccello and Ghiberti. Take a deep breath and climb up to take a closer look, and you'll be rewarded by fantastic views of the city and an insight into how the dome was so cleverly constructed - without scaffolding (though there's plenty of that propping the dome up now!). The dome still defines the scale of the city, and no building in town is taller.  Giotto designed the cathedral's Campanile, and Pisano and della Robbia contributed bas-reliefs. It too is clad in white, pink and green marble. The Baptistry is adjacent - it's one of the city's oldest buildings, and was originally a pagan temple. The building is most famous for its gilded bronze doors. Those on the south are by Pisano, but it is the doors facing east (and in the direction of the cathedral) that are most talked about. Created by Ghiberti, they are known as the Gates of Paradise (a moniker believed to have been dubbed by Michelangelo). Created between 1424 and 1452, their beauty and sophistication mark them as one of the first products of the Renaissance. The Baptistry's ceilings feature gory 13th-century mosaics of the Last Judgment.  Behind the cathedral is the Duomo Museum, which features original panels taken from the doors of the Baptistry, Brunelleschi's death mask, equipment used to build the dome and an impressive sculpture collection, including pieces by Michelangelo.  
europe_florence_facts.html:  When to Go  The best time to visit Florence is in the low season, from April to June and in September/October, when the weather is usually good, prices are lower and there are fewer tourists - if you come in July or August, expect a Renaissance Disneyland experience and plenty of sweat in your socks. Early winter, in December, can also be surprisingly pleasant, with crisp air and sunny days and far, far fewer people clogging up the piazzas.     Events  Major festivals include the Explosion of the Cart, when a cart full of fireworks is exploded in front of the duomo on Easter Sunday; and the Feast of St John the Baptist, the patron saint of the city, on 24 June. The lively Calcio Storico, featuring football matches played in 16th century costume, is held in June in Piazza della Signoria and ends with a fireworks display over Piazzale Michelangelo.  The public holidays in Florence are: Anno Nuovo (New Year's Day), 1 January; Befana (Epiphany), 6 January; Venerdi Santo (Good Friday) & Pasquetta/Giorno dopo Pasqua (Easter Monday), March/April; Giorno Della Liberazione (Liberation Day), 25 April; Giorno del Lavoro (Labour Day), 1 May; Assunzione (Feast of the Assumtion), 15 August; Ognissanti (All Saints' Day), 1 November; Concezione Immaculata (Feast of the Immaculate Conception), 8 December; Natale (Christmas Day), 25 December; Festa di Santo Stefano (St Stephen's/Boxing Day), 26 December.    
europe_florence_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Nestled in the hilly valleys between the Arno and Mugnone rivers, beautiful Fiesole offers spectacular views of nearby Florence (8km to the south) and is a welcome fresh-air retreat from the city bustle. The city readily reveals its Etruscan, Roman and Renaissance past, and as a summer retreat it has attracted the likes of Boccaccio, Proust, Gertrude Stein and Frank Lloyd Wright. Fiesole has a duomo, an impressive art museum and an archaeological site featuring an Etruscan temple and the remains of a Roman theatre and baths. Fiesole is especially popular as a picnic spot, and its fascinating winding streets offer atmospheric walks.  
europe_france_activities.html:  Activities  France's varied geography and climate allow for a wide ride range of outdoor pursuits. The French have taken to hiking with gusto, and there are walking paths through every imaginable kind of terrain. Probably the best known trails are the sentiers de grande randonnee, long-distance footpaths designated by the letters GR. The GR 5 winds through the Alps, the GR 4 is in the Massif Central and the popular GR 10 runs along the Pyrenees from the Mediterranean to the Atlantic. Cycling is another mania in France. La Margeride in Languedoc is a particularly inviting area for mountain biking, as are the Alps, Brittany and the Pyrenees. Skiing is also popular with some of Europe's finest - and most expensive - facilities in the Alps (at Chamonix, for example), though prices tend to be much cheaper in the Pyrenees around Cauterets and the Massif Central, which is good for cross-country skiing.  The best swimming spots are found along the Atlantic coast (near La Rochelle), the Channel coast of Normandy, southern Brittany, the Mediterranean (including the coast of Corsica) as well as on lakes such as Lac d'Annecy and Lake Geneva. The French are at ease with their bodies, and this is reflected in a number of venues for naturism (walking around bollock naked), mostly in Langedoc-Rousillon and the C te d'Azur. Other activities include: rock climbing in the Alps and the Pyrenees; horse riding in Burgundy and the French Basque Country; surfing in Biarritz; rafting down the Gorge du Verdon in Provence; and hang-gliding in Languedoc. If your interests are more cerebral, you can take French language courses or learn the ins and outs of the souffle at regional cooking classes.  
europe_france_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital and gem in France's tourist crown, Paris is a glutton for superlatives and travel cliches. As a result, visitors often arrive all moist and runny with giddy expectations of grand vistas and romance along the Seine, of landscapes painted on bus-sized canvases, of phenomenally haughty people, of pick-an- ist types in cafes monologuing on the use of garlic or the finer points of Jerry Lewis. True, you can usually find whatever you expect or hope to discover. But an equally effective way of enjoying your stay in the city is to leave your expectations in the hotel, wander aimlessly around the backstreets and avenues, and just see what you see.  
europe_france_environment.html:  Environment  Slightly larger than California, France is one of the largest countries in Europe. The English Channel lies to the northwest and the Atlantic Ocean to the west. Spain broils across the Pyrenees to the south, the Mediterranean (including Corsica) is to the southeast and over the eastern Alps and Jura ranges lie Switzerland and Italy. France's relatively flat northeastern borders abut Germany, Luxembourg and Belgium.  Since 1790, France has been divided into administrative units of about 6100 sq km (2380 sq mi) called departements. There are 96 departements in France and a further five overseas, expanses of ocean being no impediment to Frankish administrative zeal. The departements d'outre-mer (overseas departments) are the Caribbean islands of Guadeloupe and Martinique; the Pacific island groups of New Caledonia, Tahiti and French Polynesia; French Guiana, in South America; Reunion, in the Indian Ocean east of Madagascar; and Saint Pierre and Miquelon, in the Atlantic Ocean just south of Newfoundland.  The French Alps include Mont Blanc, which at 4800m (15,750ft) is Europe's highest peak. The most spectacular of France's ancient ranges is the Massif Central, a huge region in the middle of France that covers one-sixth of the country. The country's longest river, the Loire, runs 1020km (630mi) from the Massif Central to the Atlantic. The Seine, Rh ne, Garonne and Rhine are France's other major waterways, draining the plains and funnelling huge mountain run-offs. Over 3200km (1985mi) of coastline ranges from the chalk cliffs of Normandy and the promontories of Brittany to the fine-sand beaches along the Atlantic. The southeastern Mediterranean coast tends to have pebbly, sometimes rocky beaches, though the Languedoc and some of the Roussillon beaches have sand-castle potential.  France's mix of climates and terrains endowed it with a rich variety of flora and fauna. Unfortunately, due to agricultural overkill, pollution and encroaching urbanisation, many fragile species such as the Pyrenees ibex, Corsican deer, brown bear, wolf and otter now face extinction. Some animals and birds - the chamois (a mountain antelope), the larger bouquetin (a type of ibex), beaver, stork and vulture - still live in the wild thanks to re-introduction programs based in national parks. Forests - mostly beech, oak and pine - cover roughly one-fifth of the country. Storms in 1999 uprooted over 60 million trees throughout France; replanting is underway. These wooded areas, as well as vast wetlands, support the bulk of the country's mammals and birds.  France has a predominantly temperate climate, with mild winters, except in mountain areas and the northeast. The Atlantic has a profound impact on the northwest, where the weather is characterised by high humidity, often violent westerly winds and lots of rain. France's northeast has a classic continental climate, with fairly hot summers and cold winters. Midway between the two, the Paris basin boasts the nation's lowest annual precipitation, but rainfall patterns are erratic. Paris' average annual temperature is 12 C (52 F), but the mercury sometimes drops below zero in January and can climb to the mid-30s C (95 F) or higher in August. The southern coastal plains are subject to a pleasant Mediterranean climate: frost is rare, spring and autumn downpours are sudden but brief and summer is virtually without rain. The south is also the region of the 'mistral', a cold, dry wind that blows down the Rh ne Valley for about 100 days a year. Relentless and unforgiving in spring, it is blamed for sending people into fits of pique.  
europe_france_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Nationals of the EU, the USA, Canada, New Zealand, Australia and Israel do not require visas to visit France as tourists for up to three months. Except for people from a handful of other European countries, everyone else must have a visa.Health risks: Your main risks are likely to be sunburn, foot blisters, insect bites and upset stomachs from overeating and drinking.Time:GMT/UTC +1Electricity:220V, 50HzWeights & measures:Metric When to Go  Spring offers the best weather to visitors, with beach tourism picking up in May. Temperatures aren't too bad in autumn, although the short days mean limited sunlight and the cold starts to make itself felt towards the end of the season, even along the C te d'Azur. Winter means playing in the snow in France's Alps and Pyrenees, though the Christmas school holidays send hordes of tadpoles in uniform scurrying for the slopes. Mid-July through the end of August is when most city dwellers take their annual five weeks' vacation to the coasts and mountains, and the half-desolate cities tend to shut down a bit accordingly. Likewise during February and March.     Events  The French are a festive bunch, with many cities hosting music, dance, theatre, cinema or art events each year. Rural villages hold fairs and f tes which celebrate everything from local saints to agricultural progress. Saintes-Maries-de-la-Mer in Provence is the venue for a colourful gypsy festival in late May honouring Sarah, patron saint of the gypsies. Enthusiastic singing and dancing characterise this extravaganza. Prominent national days off are May Day (1 May), when people trade gifts of muguet (lily of the valley) for good luck; and Bastille Day (14 July), which is celebrated by throwing firecrackers at friends. Regional events include the primping and preening pr t a porter fashion show in Paris (early February); the glittering and often-canned Cannes Film Festival (mid-May); the International Music Festival in Strasbourg (first three weeks of June); the mainstream and fringe theatre of the Festival d'Avignon (mid-July to mid-August) and the Jazz Festival in Nancy (9-24 October).   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day late March/April - Easter Sunday & Monday 1 May - May Day 8 May - Victoire 1945 May (40th day after Easter) - Ascension Thursday mid-May-mid-June (7th Sunday after Easter) - Pentecost/Whit Sunday & Whit Monday 14 July - Bastille Day/National Day 15 August - Assumption Day 1 November - All Saints' Day 11 November - Remembrance Day 25 December - Christmasback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to FranceTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_france_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This wild but beautiful island epitomises the ruggedness of the Brittany coast. An old local saying 'Qui voit Ouessant voit son sang' ('He who sees Ouessant sees his blood') dramatically expresses its untamed nature and the fear inspired by the area's powerful currents and treacherous rocks. The 8km (5mi)-long island guards the entrance to the Channel, and is appreciated as a visual landmark by over 50,000 ships every year.  While the inhabitants are no longer isolated from the rest of the world, centuries of tradition prevail: houses are painted blue and white for the Virgin Mary, or green and white to symbolise hope with interiors furnished from driftwood; gnarled old women make lace crosses to represent the souls of their husbands lost at sea; small black sheep roam freely over the land; and rago t de mouton (lamb baked under a layer of roots and herbs) remains a staple dish. Ouessant also has the world's most powerful lighthouse, good museums on local history and stunning walks and scenery.  The island is 20km from the mainland and can be reached from the ports of Brest or Le Conquet on Brittany's northwestern coast.  
europe_frankfurt_activities.html:  Activities  After you've had your fill of culture at all those fabulous museums, head outside and take a tour - there are boat tours, architecture tours, walking tours, tram tours...even banking tours. Getting to know and love the Frankfurters' favourite tipple, apple wine (Ebbelwoi), can be a time-consuming activity, as is competing with the local burghers' boundless appetite for eating. Cycling is made easier by the provision of bike lanes. Outdoor swimming is pretty popular in Frankfurt, and the swimming centres usually come with a bunch of slides and waterfalls, table tennis, volleyball and grassy knolls for sunbathing. Going to the gym is as much a part of social life as going to the pub, and you'll probably meet the same people in both places. If you use a sauna or steamroom, though, you'd better be comfortable with nudity. In-line skating has taken Frankfurt by storm, and is even an officially recognised form of transport in the city. Golf is pretty much for the elite, and definitely not for green-hackers.  
europe_frankfurt_attractions.html:  Attractions  Grab a gelati, join the throngs and head for the old market square, site of the first Frankfurt Book Fair way back in 1480. The square is lined with a stage set of ersatz medieval buildings that give only a hint of the architectural riches lost during WWII. The three step-gabled pink buildings on the northwestern corner resurrect the old (1405) town hall, or Römer, site of coronation celebrations during the Holy Roman Empire. Paulskirche, on Paulsplatz to the north, is fondly remembered for hosting the short-lived National Assembly of 1848. Further east, the Frankfurter Dom was one of the few buildings left standing after the bombing raids of 1944, and it was here that all those emperors were crowned.  To tune into the Carolingian vibe, visit the Dommuseum and excavated Historischer Garten (Historical Garden). For yet more history visit the Historisches Museum just south of Römerberg; there's the usual tribute to apple wine, but the highlight is the incredibly detailed model of 1930s Frankfurt, flanked by a model of the postwar city in ruins.  
europe_frankfurt_facts.html:  When to Go  As a convention town par excellence, Frankfurt's population swells during March-May and September-October - which just happen to be the best times to visit weatherwise. The winter months (November-February) are prone to storms and freezing temperatures, and June-August are hot, prone to rain and crowded. The solution is to book ahead or stay at places either beneath or beyond the conventioneers' budgets.     Events  Frankfurt's calendar of special events kicks off in February with the pre-Lent Fastnacht parades. In March the International Music Trade Fair segues into the International Jazz Festival, with impromptu concerts and big-name musicians hitting the city's many venues. In March the spring Dippemess brings the fair to town, with carousels, pottery displays and regional food and wine. The summer months feature a bevy of festivals devoted to Frankfurt's favourite tipple, apple wine (very much an acquired taste). June's Wilhelmstrassenfest Theatrium is one of the country's most exclusive street festivals, with gourmet snacks served to a jazz backbeat, and the Sommerfest at Opernplatz puts on a week-long feast for gourmands. August celebrates the River Main, with apple wine literally flowing in the streets during Mainfest and the Museumsuferfest bringing the riverside alive with art, music and exhibitions. In September the autumn Dippemess resurrects the carousels, pottery and apple wine stalls for one last hooray before winter sets in. The world's largest Book Fair takes over Frankfurt in September/October, and the month-long Weihnachtsmarkt Christmas fair brings the year to an exhausted close.   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day Late Mar/April - Good Friday & Easter Monday 1 May - Labour Day May - Ascension May/June - Whitsun Bank Holiday May/June - Wäldchestag (half-day) May/June - Corpus Christi 3 October - German Unification 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to FrankfurtTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_frankfurt_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Climb to the top of this 590m (1935ft) hill, around 10km (6mi) northeast of the Altstadt, and be rewarded by panoramic vistas of Frankfurt's skyline and the entire Rhine-Main region - a sea of rooftops, tower blocks, skyscrapers, trees and hills. The steep hillsides are planted with Frankfurt's only vineyard, and those manicured vegetable gardens you can see are rented allotments fastidiously fussed over by Frankfurt's high-rise dwellers. Quench all that feasting of eyes with a well-earned apple wine at the obligatory beer garden before heading back to the throngs - in winter you can sled down the hill if you're willing to take the risk.  
europe_geneva_activities.html:  Activities  Being anywhere around the Swiss Alps on a lake means there is no shortage of year-round activities, and Geneva is no exception. There is an excellent walking tour of the old town from the Mont Blanc tourist office or you could take in the beautiful vistas with some hiking in the nearby Jura mountains or Mont Saleve to the southeast. During the summer months the lake provides plenty of opportunities for swimming and sailing.  
europe_geneva_attractions.html:  Attractions  During a gruesome battle for independence in northern Italy in 1859, Genevan philanthropist and businessman Henry Dunant was moved to action by the plight of dying and suffering soldiers. He made the proposal that 'some international principle, sanctioned by a Convention inviolate in character...might constitute the basis for societies for the relief of the wounded'. So, formed on the back of the Geneva Convention in 1864, the International Red Cross became the world's first humanitarian organisation. Its museum highlights the fascinating origins and growth of the Red Cross (and the Muslim adjunct, the Red Crescent), and presents a compelling multimedia trawl through atrocities perpetuated by humanity in recent history. Although the message is supposed to be one of hope and a collective responsibility to humanity, it is the images and stories of terror that are more psychologically lasting. Despite the sombre nature of the museum it is well worth a visit.  To change the mood, head east for a bit and check out the gorgeous Musee Ariana, one of Europe's most important and comprehensive kilncraft museums - and it's a freebie. In Switzerland this is not an offer to be scoffed at, plus they sell great coffee mugs. If that isn't your cup of tea, the United Nations is only a short hop east of the museum (you'll need to bring your passport to get inside). You can take a moderately interesting hour-long tour among the 3000-odd international civil servants working there, but you're not likely to see any delicate negotiations or chest thumping taking place. Buses 8 and F from Place de Cornavin drop you outside the Red Cross Museum.  
europe_geneva_facts.html:  When to Go  Geneva is a popular base for the Alps, making it a destination year round for sightseeing, skiing and hiking. At any time of year the climatic conditions can vary extremely in Alpine regions, with mid-August to late October providing the most settled weather. The best of the weather is between June and September - but this is also the high season in the high country, when the sights and lodgings will be packed with European vacationers, hikers and backpackers in bulk. It's also the wettest time of year. The shoulder season offers a better deal with prices and crowds, and skiing conditions are usually still very good.     Events  Geneva's best-known festival is the celebration of l'escalade on 11 December, involving the wild consumption of chocolate and marzipan. It marks the occasion in 1602 when one of the invading Duke of Savoy's soldiers was thwarted by an unhappy housewife who poured her boiling cauldron of vegetable soup over him and then smashed it over his head. Several times. In Genevan homes the vegetable soup has been replaced by Switzerland's famous sweet (and patented) cocoa perfection. In the town there are torch-lit processions in historic costume and a huge bonfire in the cathedral square. And more chocolate.  The F tes de Geneve spans two weekends in August with parades, open-air concerts and fireworks, while the Bol d'Or in mid-June sees Lake Geneva come alive with the bobbing white sails of some 600 yachts racing to the far end of the lake and back.    
europe_geneva_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If you thought the Jet d'Eau was big, and the UN was huge, then the scale of CERN, the European Organization for Nuclear Research, will truly impress. Near Meyrin, 10km (6mi) north of Geneva, the centre is not just nerd-vana. The birthplace of the World Wide Web, it also has the world's biggest machine - a 27km (17mi) circular particle accelerator - and the largest magnet. Not surprisingly, it attracts science buffs from the world over.  
europe_georgia_activities.html:  Activities  Although not particularly well organised from a traveller's perspective, the mountains of north and south Georgia are prime hiking country. Best attempted in the summer months is a four-day walk from Kazbegi to Khevsureti in the north. A guide is strongly recommended - there are many villages along the way and the wild locals sometimes require an introduction. The nights will be cold, so rug up.  With its Soviet health spa reputation, you'd imagine swimming at Georgian beaches would be world class. Unfortunately, the best beaches are in the northwest, which means Abkhazia. What with landmines and lawlessness throughout this region, if you're desperate for a really good beach, you should maybe try Hawaii. On the southern coast of the Black Sea, however, resorts with pebble beaches can still be found and remain popular with locals.   Wine tastings are increasing in popularity throughout the country, and especially in the east, where there seems to be a winery around every corner. Get someone else to do the driving.  
europe_georgia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Red-roofed, low-rise and higgledy-piggledy, Tbilisi has a distinctly cosmopolitan feel. With a population of about 1.5 million, it is a major economic and cultural centre. Tbilisi is famous for its historical monuments and gorgeous architecture, which include the Sioni Cathedral Church that dates from the 5th century and the ancient Narikhala fortress. Visitors can also take in the local theatre scene. Three of the city's most famous and long-established theatres are situated in Rustaveli Avenue, including the Paliashvili Opera House, founded in 1851.  
europe_georgia_environment.html:  Environment  Georgia occupies the central and eastern parts of the Caucasus. Its neighbours are the Russian Federation (to the north), Azerbaijan (east), Armenia (south) and Turkey (to the southeast). It is a mountainous country, with the northern boundary running along the Great Caucasian Range and the southern boundary hitting the mountains of the Minor Caucasus. Between these two ranges, plains extend west to the 330km (205mi) coastline of the Black Sea.  In spite of its relatively small size, Georgia is covered with a huge variety of flora, a result of the combination of western and eastern climates. The mountain ranges trap the weather within Georgia, contributing to the geographical and environmental isolation of the ecological systems and producing a high level of endemic variety. Forests constitute 38% of the country's territory and cover 2.7 million hectares (6.6 million acres) of the land mass. Georgia has about 100 species of animals, over 330 species of birds, 48 species of reptiles, 11 species of amphibians and about 160 species of fish.  The climate varies greatly, given Georgia's size, and covers different zones ranging from humid subtropical areas to regions containing snow and glaciers. A subtropical climate prevails in western Georgia (Cholkci), while a more moderate subtropical climate with considerably less rain is characteristic of the east. Tbilisi (a name which is derived from Tbili, the local word for warm) has an average winter temperature of 1 C (34 F) in January, but lives up to its name in summer: it enjoys an often balmy 25 C (77 F) in July.  
europe_georgia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas:The citizens of Poland, Bulgaria and the other CIS countries can enter Georgia without a visa. Other visitors must get a visa (valid for one month) from a Georgian embassy abroad or when they get to the airport (not recommended).Health risks: Medical care in Georgia is limited. There is a severe shortage of basic medical supplies. Bring your own syringes (with a note from your doctor), and ensure you're in good health before you leave home. Travelers should consider receiving the pre-exposure rabies vaccine before leaving home. Doctors and hospitals often expect immediate cash payment for health services in Georgia.Time: GMT/UTC + 4 hoursElectricity: 220 volts, 50 Hz.Weights & measures: Metric When to Go  Georgia doesn't exactly offer peak and off-peak travel seasons, so travellers can take their pick about when to head there. Travel is less restricted in summer - there's not much snow - so mid-year is a good option. If you like to see locals celebrate, then check out Independence Day in late May, or Tbilisi Festival day in late October (when the wineries are most active).     Events  It is a tradition in Georgia to mark the anniversaries of the founding of cities and towns with festivals, and Tbilisi has the biggest of them all. The festival of Tbilisi, Tbilisoba, is celebrated every year on the last Sunday of October. Being autumn, it is the time of harvest and wine-making, and many Georgian weddings also occur at this time. Traditional music and dancing concerts are given in the open air on festival day.    
europe_georgia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Not really difficult to get to (buses operate from Tbilisi), Tskhinvali is nevertheless a more adventurous destination than many towns in Georgia. Capital of the troubled South Ossetia region, which has all but attained complete independence, Tskhinvali has hosted some outbreaks of violence over the past decade. Now apparently stable - or at least largely committed to a diplomatic outcome - it's less than 150km (90mi) northwest of Tbilisi.  
europe_germany_activities.html:  Activities  One in every three Germans is a member of a sporting club, so it's not surprising that the great outdoors is accessible to travellers too. Cycling is a favoured recreation, with many western German cities and the countryside boasting super-smooth cycling trails. Eastern German back roads can be great for cycling too. Lightly travelled and more interesting than the main highways, you could spend weeks wending your way from town to town. Hikers are well catered for with marked trails in the Black Forest, the Harz Mountains, the Bavarian Alps and elsewhere. The Alps are the most popular area, but the trails get crowded, especially during holiday periods. In winter, skiing, both downhill and cross-country, dominates the area. The Black Forest, although vertically challenged, is also popular for skiing, while the Harz Mountains are popular for cross-country skiing. Germany's rivers and lakes are great for boating, with cruises operating around Berlin and Potsdam, the huge lakes in southern Germany and the Baltic Sea. Sailing and windsurfing are popular leisure pursuits, especially on Lake Constance in the south.  
europe_germany_attractions.html:  Attractions  The might and scope of Prussian achievement is manifest in Berlin, one of the world's most fascinating and troubling cities. Of strategic importance since it first straddled the Spree River in the 13th century, Berlin never hogged centre stage quite like it did this century. This is the heart of Germany, its stoic beat echoing through grand public buildings, glorious museums and theatres, and its urbane restaurants, bustling pubs and raucous nightclubs. Today, the city, restored as the nation's capital, is the focus of the mammoth project of reunification and readings of Germany's mood are taken most accurately here.  Berlin is a good city to explore on foot. Take time to stroll from Alexanderplatz to the Brandenburg Gate along Unter den Linden. The nearby Kulturforum is a cluster of museums and concert halls on the south-eastern side of Tiergarten that can take days to explore.  
europe_germany_environment.html:  Environment  The lowlands in the north of Germany stretch from the Netherlands to Poland, skimming southern Denmark where it bridges the North and Baltic seas. The industrialised central belt cinches Belgium and Luxembourg to the Czech Republic's western prong. The Rhine and Main Rivers, long crucial for inland shipping, power through the troughs and gorges which cut through the Central Uplands. To the south, the Danube River drains the Bavarian highlands from the Black Forest, near the French and Swiss borders, to Munich. The southern reaches of the Bavarian Alps give way to Austria.  Germany is not prey to dramatic climatic extremes, although there are regional differences. The most reliably good weather is from May to October, with high summer a good bet for shorts and t-shirt, even in the north. Autumn is a good time to visit Germany. As the tourist scrum disperses and the forests turn golden, it's not too stifling to be active but still thirsty enough to end the day with a few well-deserved steins. Winter is wet, especially in the south, with snow rarely settling for long except in the high country.  A land as heavily populated and industrialised as Germany is not an obvious paradise for the naturalist. Over a third of the land is intensely cultivated and you'll never travel far without hitting a town. There isn't much in the way of wildlife (don't tell the bird-watchers) and most of the forests are like everything else in Germany: organised! That said, the Bavarian Forest in the south-east is the largest mountain forest in Europe and the Black Forest is big enough to be a bit wild. However, a concerted effort is being made to re-create original forest conditions in many locations. Forest fauna includes wild pig, fox and deer, but you're not likely to be caught in a stampede.  
europe_germany_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: EU citizens can enter on an official identity card. Americans, Australians, Canadians, New Zealanders and Japanese just need a valid passport (no visa). Unless you're a citizen of a developing country, you can probably stay up to three months.Health risks: The cost of medical care - come with insuranceTime:GMT/UTC +1(+2 in summer)Electricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism:17 million visitors per year When to Go  The German climate is variable so it's best to be prepared for all types of weather throughout the year. That said, the most reliable weather is from May to October. This coincides, naturally enough, with the standard tourist season (except for skiing). The shoulder periods can bring fewer tourists and surprisingly pleasant weather. There is no special rainy season.     Events  From pagan harvest romps to black tie opera galas, Germans are keen to party. The Winter Carnival (Fasching) season occurs throughout Germany, with big cities such as Cologne (Köln), Munich and Mainz erupting into commotion just before Ash Wednesday. Germany's rich musical heritage is showcased in a plethora of festivals. Some towns concentrate on a particular composer, such as the Thuringian Bach Festival in March or the Richard Wagner Festival in Bayreuth each July, whereas others focus on a particular style. The jazz festivals in Stuttgart (April) and Berlin (November) are lively and popular. Autumn is a great time for harvest-inspired mayhem, especially in the Rhineland, where the Rhine in Flames frolics feature barges laden with fireworks. Mention must be made of Oktoberfest, Munich's annual lager frenzy, but it's a bit like being stuck in a nightmarish soccer crowd and is more an example of tourism at its lowest ebb than a display of German culture. Most towns in Bavaria have festivals devoted to beer and they're much nicer than Oktoberfest. Christmas fairs are embraced wholeheartedly by German families, including those in Munich, Nuremberg, Lübeck, Berlin, Münster and Heidelberg.    
europe_germany_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This gentle, picturesque university town, just 35km (22mi) south of Stuttgart, is a place to wander winding cobbled alleys past half-timbered houses and old stone walls. From the heights of the Renaissance Hohentübingen Castle (now part of the university) there are fine views over the steep, red-tiled rooftops of the altstadt (old town). Today's students are the proud custodians of a rigorous liberal intellectual tradition, and can be seen in every cafe plotting earnestly to save the world. The market here is a treasure, filled with fruit and vegetables, and this is one town where some of this crisp and fresh produce might actually turn up on your plate. Also check out the nearby Rathaus and its delightful clock.  
europe_gibraltar_activities.html:  Activities  In addition to all the walking to be done around the Rock, you can take advantage of sailing the waters around Gibraltar. The Bah a de Algeciras has a sizable population of dolphins, and from about April to September, several boats make two or more daily trips out to see them; at other times of year there's usually at least one in daily operation. Most go from Watergardens Quay or adjacent Marina Bay. You'll be unlucky if you don't get plenty of close-up dolphin contact.  
europe_gibraltar_attractions.html:  Attractions  The museum has good historical, architectural and military displays, including a well-preserved Muslim bathhouse and a detailed model of the Rock made in the 1860s. In the town centre around the museum, you can still see British fortifications, gates and gun emplacements. Most Spanish and Islamic buildings were destroyed in the 18th century sieges.  
europe_gibraltar_facts.html:  When to Go  You might want to bear in mind that July and August can be hot, with average highs around 27.5 C (82 F), but otherwise, there's no wrong time to visit Gibraltar. April and October can be especially lovely: the weather is mild and there's no tourist crush to worry about. The coldest month is January with average temperatures between 11 C (52 F) and 16 C (61 F).  January to early June is the time to view northbound migrations of raptors and storks, late July to early November is when the flocks are southbound.     Events  Gibraltar takes holidays at Easter, two days at Christmas and one for New Year. There's also Commonwealth Day on 12 March, the Queen's Birthday in mid-June and Gibraltar National Day on 10 September. Gibraltar's modest program of annual events includes a flower show in April, an arts and sporting festival which runs through most of May and an annual fair which straddles National Day in September. There's also a drama festival in early December. The Gibraltar Ornithological and Natural History Society hosts 'rambles' on the last Sunday of each month, focusing on various natural features of the territory.    
europe_gibraltar_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Great Siege Tunnels were gun emplacements hewn out by hand by the British during the 1779-83 siege. They constitute a tiny proportion of the more than 70km (43.4mi) of tunnels in the Rock, most of which are off limits to the public. Nearby is the Tower of Homage, the last vestige of Gibraltar's Muslim castle built in 1333. To get to the tunnels, walk to Princess Caroline's battery, about 30 minutes north (downhill) from the top cable-car station on the Rock. You'll come to a Military Heritage Centre. From here, a road leads up to the impressive tunnels.  
europe_glasgow_activities.html:  Activities  There are several long-distance pedestrian/cycle routes that originate in Glasgow and follow off-road routes for most of the distance. The Tourist Information Centre has a range of maps and leaflets detailing these routes, most of which start from Bell's Bridge. The long-distance footpath known as the West Highland Way begins in Milngavie, 13km (8mi) north of Glasgow, and runs for 153km (95mi) to Fort William.  
europe_glasgow_attractions.html:  Attractions  Glasgow's top attraction, the Burrell Collection, was amassed by wealthy industrialist Sir William Burrell before it was donated to the city. It's now housed in a prize-winning museum in the Pollok Country Park, 5km (3mi) south of the city centre. This idiosyncratic collection includes everything from Chinese porcelain and medieval furniture to paintings by Renoir and Cezanne. Carpeted floors maintain the silence to contemplate the beautifully displayed treasures. Carved-stone Romanesque doorways are incorporated into the structure so one actually walks through them. Some galleries are reconstructions of rooms from Hutton Castle, the Burrell residence.  The building was the result of a design competition in 1971. If it had not been run during a postal strike, necessitating an extension of the closing deadline, Barry Gasson's winning entry would not have been completed. From the outside, the building seems somewhat of a hybrid, but the truly spectacular interior provides a fitting setting for an exquisite collection of tapestries, oriental porcelain, paintings and European stained glass. Floor-to-ceiling windows admit a flood of natural light, and the trees and landscape outside only enhance the effect created by the exhibits.  
europe_glasgow_environment.html:  Environment  Although Glasgow lacks the instantly inspiring beauty of Edinburgh, it's one of Britain's largest, liveliest and most interesting cities, with a legacy of appealing Victorian architecture and several distinguished suburbs of terraced squares and crescents.  There are numerous green spaces within the city. Pollok Country Park surrounds the Burrell Collection with numerous woodland trails. Nearer the centre of the city, the Kelvin Walkway follows the River Kelvin through Kelvingrove Park, the Botanic Gardens and on to Dawsholm Park.  The city is surrounded by a grim hinterland of post-industrial communities. Industrial archaeologists could have a field day here, and some might see a perverse beauty in the endless suburbs of grey council house architecture. But it's here, possibly, that the Glasgow area's gritty black sense of humour is endangered.  
europe_glasgow_facts.html:  When to Go  'Varied' is a vague but accurate way to describe the many moods of Scotland's cool temperate climate. The weather changes quickly - a rainy day is often followed by a sunny one. There are also wide variations over small distances; while one glen broods under a cloud, the next may be basking in sunshine. As some locals are wont to say, 'If you don't like the weather just wait five minutes.' May and June are generally the driest months, but expect rain at any time. Storms are rare April to August.     Events  Not to be outdone by Edinburgh, Glasgow has developed several festivals of its own, starting each January with a two-week Celtic music festival. Maydaze, in early May, is a new arts and dance festival. The West End Festival of music and the arts runs for two weeks in June, and it's currently Glasgow's biggest festival. The excellent International Jazz Festival is held in July. Glasgay! is a gay performing arts festival, held every two years around October/November.  Other festivals include the Scottish Proms (classical music) in mid-June and the World Pipe Band Championships in mid-August, with over 100 pipe bands.    
europe_glasgow_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This is the town that gave its name to the well-known fabric design of swirling stylised teardrops or pinecones called the Paisley Pattern. Now really a suburb west of Glasgow, Paisley grew up around the abbey. By the 19th century, the town was a major producer of printed cotton and woollen cloth. The famous design was, in fact, copied from shawls brought back from India. At one time, Paisley was the largest producer of cotton thread in the world; the Coats family of threadmakers have enjoyed a long association with the town.  Here you will find Paisley Abbey, in Abbey Close, which was founded in 1163 by Walter Fitzallan, the first High Steward of Scotland and ancestor of the Stuart dynasty. On the other side of Abbey Close you will see the grand Town Hal. At the western end of the High St, there's the University of Paisley and the Museum and Art Gallery, with a large display of Paisley shawls and an interesting outline of the history of the Paisley Pattern. It also has collections of local and natural history, ceramics, and 19th century Scottish art. The Coats Observatory has interesting displays about astronomy, earthquake recording, and weather and climate, all continuously monitored here since 1882.  
europe_greece_activities.html:  Activities  Greece's mountainous terrain is perfect for trekking. The countryside is crisscrossed with donkey and goat tracks, and Byzantine cobbled paths link most villages. Although some of the alpine trails are a tad overgrown, most of the popular routes are well maintained. The forested Pindos mountains of Epiros, the Peloponnese and the southwest of Crete are the among the best areas for trekking. Still on terra firma, Greece is one of the cheapest places in Europe to go skiing and has around 20 resorts which provide a pleasant alternative to the glitz of the Alps. The most developed resort is on Mt Parnassos near Delphi.  The meltemi and the lakelike surface of the Aegean provide perfect conditions for windsurfing, which is the most popular water sport in Greece. Hrysi Akti on Paros and Vasiliki on Lefkada are the top spots. Although snorkelling is encouraged and well worthwhile anywhere along the coast, Monastiri on Paros, Telendos Islet near Kalymnos and anywhere off the coast of Kastellorizo are especially good places. Scuba diving is strictly forbidden, unless under the auspices of a diving school, so that underwater antiquities are protected from pilferers. Water skiing can be done on Chios, Corfu, Crete, Kythira, Lesvos, Paros, Skiathos and Rhodes.  
europe_greece_attractions.html:  Attractions  Athens ranks with Rome and Jerusalem for its glorious past, yet few fall in love with the modern city. Most visitors never see beyond the nefos (smog) and the high-rise apartment blocks built hurriedly to house the refugees who poured in from Asia Minor during the 1923 population exchange with Turkey. But beyond the off-putting veneer of concrete there is a kind of dilapidated charm. Almost every house and apartment has a balcony bulging with geraniums, and many of the city's streets and squares are fringed with orange trees. Athens is a curious blend of east and west; its raucous street vendors and colourful markets are reminiscent of Turkish bazaars, while crumbling neoclassical mansions hark back to the city's brief heyday as the 'Paris of the Mediterranean'.  The Acropolis, crowned by the Parthenon, stands sentinel over Athens and is visible from almost everywhere in the city. Pericles set about transforming the Acropolis into a city of temples after being informed by the Delphic oracle in 510 BC that it should become a province of the gods. The city was a showcase of colossal buildings, lavishly coloured and gilded, and of gargantuan statues, some of bronze, others of marble plated with gold and encrusted with precious stones. Now in ruins, the cool grandeur of the bare marble is still breathtaking. Beside the Parthenon, which is unsurpassed in its grace and harmony, is the Erechtheion, immediately recognisable for its much-photographed Caryatids, the six maidens who take the place of columns. The Ancient Theatre of Dionysos, where every Athenian citizen took their turn in the chorus of Greek tragedies, is on the southern slope of the Acropolis.   Nestled into the northeastern slope of the Acropolis is the old village of Plaka, virtually all that existed of Athens before it was declared the capital of independent Greece. Its narrow labyrinthine streets retain much of their charm despite gross commercialism. Fenced off on the verge of Plaka is the ancient Agora (marketplace) which formed the centre of social and civic life in ancient Athens. Other attractions include the National Archaeological Museum, which houses magnificent gold artefacts from Mycenae and spectacular Minoan frescoes from Santorini (Thira), among other exquisite objects and antiquities; and the Goulandris Museum of Cycladic & Ancient Greek Art, with a collection of the elegant marble figurines that inspired the likes of Modigliani, Brancusi and Picasso.   Plaka is the most popular area to stay, and some budget hotels may let you sleep on the roof in summer. Book in advance in July and August though, as Athens becomes overrun with tourists.  
europe_greece_environment.html:  Environment  Greece lies at the southern extremity of the Balkan Peninsula in southeastern Europe. To the north, it has borders with Albania, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and Bulgaria, and to the east it borders Turkey. The peninsula, which constitutes mainland Greece, is surrounded by more than 1400 islands, of which 169 are inhabited. The islands are divided into six groups: the Cyclades, the Ionians, the Dodecanese, the islands of the North-Eastern Aegean, the Sporades and the Saronic Gulf islands. The two largest islands, Crete and Evia, do not belong to any group. Roughly four-fifths of Greece is mountainous, with most land lying over 1500m (4920ft) above sea level. Epiros and Macedonia, in northern Greece, still have extensive forests, but goat grazing, felling and forest fires have seriously denuded the rest of the country.  Greece is endowed with a spectacular richness of flora - over 6000 species, some of which occur nowhere else, including more than 100 varieties of orchid. In spring, the Peloponnese and the mountains of Crete explode with the country's best show of wildflowers, including crocuses, anemones, irises, poppies, lilies, rock roses and cyclamens. Herbs, too, grow wild all over the Greek countryside - follow your nose and you'll find yourself standing knee-deep in wild oregano, basil and thyme.  Greeks are overly fond of hunting and fishing, resulting in the serious depletion of marine and bird life in some places. The human population that shares their mountain habitats considers wolves and bears pests rather than endangered species. Watching dolphins and porpoises as they follow the boats is one of the pleasures of island hopping, and the waters around Zakynthos and Kefallonia are home to the last large colony of sea turtles in Europe. The baby turtles, which are hatched on sandy beaches, now have to face not only natural hazards as they make their way out to sea, but also cars, discos and beach parties. The Mediterranean monk seal is the rarest of all the seal species and one of the six most endangered mammals in the world. Numbers have declined drastically in the last 100 years and the present population is 400, about half of which live in Greece.  Greece has mild wet winters and hot dry summers. Winter temperatures can be severe in the mountains, and even Athens can get viciously cold. Maximum temperatures on the islands hover around 30 C (87 F) in summer, but the heat is often tempered by the northerly wind known as the meltemi.  
europe_greece_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: nationals of Australia, Canada, Cyprus, EU countries, the European principalities of Monaco and San Marino, Iceland, Israel, Japan, Malta, New Zealand, Norway, Switzerland, the USA and most South American countries are allowed to stay in Greece for up to three months without a visa; most others can enter Greece for up to two months without a visa; Greece will refuse entry to anyone whose passport indicates that, since November 1983, they have visited North CyprusHealth risks: sunburn, Typhus (rural areas from April to September), Lyme disease, Rabies; codeine, which is commonly found in headache preparations, is banned in Greece and you may face prosecution if you bring it into the countryTime: GMT/UTC +2; +3 during daylight saving timeElectricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: metric When to Go  Spring and autumn are the best times to visit Greece. Conditions are perfect between Easter and mid-June - the weather is pleasantly warm in most places, but not too hot; beaches and ancient sites are relatively uncrowded; public transport operates on close to full schedules; and accommodation is cheaper and easier to find than in the mid-June to end of August high season. Conditions are once more ideal from the end of August until mid-October as the season winds down. Winter is pretty much a dead loss outside the major cities as most of the tourist infrastructure goes into hibernation from the middle of October till the beginning of April. This is slowly changing, however; on the most touristy islands, a few restaurants, hotels and bars remain open year-round.     Events   The Greek year is a succession of festivals and events, some of which are religious, some cultural, others an excuse for a good knees-up. Gynaikratia on 8 January is a day of role reversal in villages in northern Greece. Women spend the day in kafeneia (cafes) and other social centres where men usually congregate, while the men stay at home to do housework. The Greek carnival season runs through February-March over the three weeks before the beginning of Lent, and features fancy dress, feasting, traditional dancing and general merrymaking. Easter is the most significant festival in Greece, with candle-lit processions, feasting and fireworks displays. Emphasis is placed on the Resurrection rather than on the Crucifixion, so it is a joyous occasion. There are numerous summer festivals across the country, the most famous being the Hellenic Festival (mid-June to late September), which hosts drama and music in ancient theatres.   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 6 January - Epiphany February - 1st Sunday in Lent 25 March - Greek Independence Day March/April - (Orthodox) Easter Sunday 1 May - Spring Festival/Labour Day 15 August - Feast of the Assumption 28 October - Ohi Day 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - St Stephen's Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to GreeceTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_greece_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  There are 44 villages in the region of Zagoria, north of Ioannina. As with many inaccessible mountainous areas in Greece, these villages maintained a high degree of autonomy in Turkish times, so their culture flourished. The houses are built entirely of slate from the surrounding mountains, and the villages, with their winding cobbled and stepped streets, look as if they've leapt straight out of a Grimm's fairy tale. Many of the villages are now sadly depopulated, with only a handful of elderly inhabitants.   The area is thickly forested with hornbeam, maple, willow and oak, and bears, wolves, wild boars, wild cats, wild goats and rare Rissos quadrupeds roam the mountains. Vlach and Sarakatsani shepherds still live a semi-nomadic existence, taking their flocks up to high grazing grounds in the summer and returning to the valleys in autumn. The Vikos-Aoös National Park encompasses much of this area, which, although popular with trekkers, is untouched by mass tourism.  
europe_greenland_activities.html:  Activities   Trekking in Greenland is serious stuff. There are very few well-worn trails (most of them are dogsled routes that run across country) and you'll need to be physically and mentally prepared for the challenge. If you can handle the pace, Greenland offers some of the most spectacular hiking sceneries around. For those into serious mountaineering, Greenland has all the mountain you can handle and then some. There are also gentler ascents for first-timers. A trip into the belly of the ice cap is a must for most mountaineers. Dogsledging is offered by the tourist offices and can last for either a few hours or a few weeks. Skiing, particularly cross-country skiing, is becoming more popular every year. Although hunting can be put on the agenda, strict rules and regulations apply. Many species are protected and even dead trophies cannot leave the country: this means no polar bear throw rugs on the floor or caribou heads mounted on the mantlepiece back home.  Off the land there are plenty of watery activities going around. The Inuits invented kayaking, so it's only to be expected that it's high on the list of things to do. Both short trips and longer trips can be arranged, although both sort are subject to the dangers of rolling icebergs. For the avid fisherperson and angler Greenland offers unique fishing opportunities. Apart from regular angling, you can also fish the time-honoured Inuit way; through a hole in the ice. The hole-the-ice method has been known to throw up the odd shark, some of them as long as 6.5m (21ft).  
europe_greenland_attractions.html:  Attractions  Nuuk was founded by the unfailingly optimistic Hans Egede - the Danish missionary with soul-conversions on his agenda - who promptly named the settlement Good Hope (Godthåb). The naming turned out to be more of a Hail Mary than a prophesy: first the native Inuit moved out of a neighbourhood that, to their way of thinking, had become too congested, and later smallpox and tuberculosis epidemics ripped through the small settlement. Even today Nuuk is small by modern standards, with a total population of only 14,000. Despite a wealth of land and a paucity of people, Nuuk has insisted on housing the population in immense apartment blocks with imaginative names like Blok P - a kind of Gulag on ice - and the urban sprawl is now spreading out along the road to the airport.   Kolonihavnen is a pleasant exception to the rest of Nuuk's Lego-city look: it's a picturesque 18th-century fishing village in the heart of Nuuk and gives some idea of what the town looked like before the industrial harbour was built.  Nuuk's real attraction lies in its proximity to any number of excellent day hikes into the hinterland and the fabulous views from the tops of the nearby mountains. Organised tours, boat trips and the rental of equipment is also easier from the capital.  
europe_greenland_environment.html:  Environment  Greenland is so far north that its residents are the first to see Old Nick fly across the rooftops each year. It's shaped like a witch's shoe lying on its side, with the back of the heel flush against the arctic polar cap, the tongue sloping down the Denmark Strait and the turned-up toes pointing into the Atlantic Ocean. Over three quarters of the country is unremittingly ice: that adds up to a little under three Texas's worth of ice or, in other words, a whole lotta scotch on the rocks. The sheer weight of all this ice has caused the middle of the country to sag, forming a concave basin which reaches a depth of 360m (1180ft) below sea level. Above the ground towering crystal columns of ice dot the landscape, glaciers calve monstrous icebergs into the sea, and fjords knit the shoreline. If the cosmic defrost button ever got pushed, the ice slush would be enough to turn coastal cities around the world into large urban swimming pools.  The peculiar geography of Greenland and its proximity to the North Pole results in a number of spectacular natural phenomena, but none more awesome than the aurora borealis and Fata Morgana effect. The aurora borealis' wafting curtains of coloured lights, most often a faint green or light rose colour, are caused by charged particles from the sun colliding with the earth's atmosphere. The lights are an ooh-ah spectacle but the Fata Morgana is a seriously trippy affair. Reflections of water, ice and snow, combined with temperature inversions, cause the illusion of solid, well defined features where there are none. Hence those early apocryphal tales of ships sailing on the ice, large cities in the middle of nowhere and green forests appearing on the horizon.   Most of the vegetation in Greenland is stunted but in late summer the lowland areas of the south are carpeted with wild flowers - chamomile, dandelion, harebell, and Arctic poppies - and wild berries. The harsh climate puts off all but the hardiest of animals but what the country lacks in numbers it makes up for in exotica. Above the ground you can see caribou, musk oxen, polar bears, lemmings, and (much-prized for their pelts) the Arctic white fox and blue-grey fox. In the water any number of whale species is likely to give you the fluke, from the Disney-cute orca, or killer whale, to the beautiful white beluga whale. The icy seas are also home to the narwhal with its unicorn tusk, and of course a whole passel of seals and walrus.   Greenland and Greenpeace are a surprisingly volatile mix. Greenpeace's anti-sealing and anti-whaling stance effectively destroyed Greenland's economic base, particularly in north Greenland where subsistence hunting represents 80% of the income. Since then, Greenpeace have recognised that Greenland is a different kettle of fish and (except in the case of endangered species) subsistence hunting is now accepted, but many Greenlanders still feel bitter about the organisation's intrusion into their traditional way of life.   Summer is a relative term in Greenland but basically it's that time between May and July when the thermometer busts a gut to climb over 20 C (68 F). This is minus the wind factor so it still means a warm jacket or pullover. This is midnight sun time when every day is, well, a day and a night; when citizens take long strolls and spontaneous boat trips at odd moments of the night, and normal calendar time takes a hike. Of course the obverse side of the coin is that when winter comes, it comes with a vengeance. When brass monkey-weather sets in, temperatures in the far north can reach as low -40 C (-40 F) and routinely sink to -20 C (-9 F)in the south. While places in the south might be gratified with a few hours of weak pale sunlight during the winter, the far north experiences true polar nights with weeks of no sun at all.  
europe_greenland_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas:Citizens of Nordic countries require only an identification card; citizens of Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Japan, the US and EU countries require a valid passport but no visa for a maximum stay of 90 days. Most other countries require a visa.Health risks:Hypothermia, runny noses, Fata MorganaTime:GMT/UTC plus two hours (three hours in summer)Electricity:220v, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  If you think bone-chilling weather and long arctic nights when the sun don't shine is not for you, then aim to be there sometime during the summer months: mid-July to the first week in September. This is feel-good time for Greenlanders; the days are long, the tundra is a riot of wild flowers and red berries and there is a general feeling of wellbeing and contentment throughout the land. The trade off for these fabulous Arctic summers is mind-bending plagues of mosquitoes that sting all the way through late June to early August. If you stay on until October, you'll get a ringside seat for the aurora borealis, although the lights can appear as early as August. Just about all Greenlandic festivals and events occur in the summer months. Going in the harsh winter months between December, January and February is just not a good idea unless you're a scientist studying seasonal effects, or a masochist, or both.     Events  The biggest event on the Greenlander calendar is the celebration that marks the end of the polar night. This usually takes place sometime in January or February. Come March the capital city, Nuuk, hosts an international snow-sculpture festival, while Uummannaq fjord provides one of the wackiest events for those of you who think golf is a proper game - The World Ice Golf Championships. You'll hear cries of 'Fjord!' instead of 'Fore!'.  In early April, Sisimiut kicks off what is billed as the world's toughest ski race, with three days of skiing in Arctic conditions. Around Easter, villages north of the Arctic Circle hold dogsled races, and the Festival of Art and Music takes place in Qaqortoq in late June/early July, close to the time of the Nuuk Marathon. Every three to four years, Greenland hosts the Inuit Circumpolar Conference, a week-long forum for the discussion of cultural and social issues. Visitors are always welcomed into both the discussions and the exhibitions. The other large festival is Aasivik, a cultural and political forum that usually takes place mid-July and showcases traditional theatre, drum dances, folk music, and in recent years, Greenlandic rock music.    
europe_greenland_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Avanersuaq lies in the realms of Ultima Thule, that most inaccessible of all lands at the northernmost region of the world. Its discovery worked overtime on the imaginations of armchair travellers and amateur anthropologists back in the Old World, and firsthand accounts of a land of glittering ice towers, hostile landscapes and a tribe of furred people bestowed upon Ultima Thule the kind of mythical proportions that only Shangri La and heaven could aspire to.  Even today Avanersuaq is difficult to reach, difficult to traverse and not cheap. Adding to its enigmatic quality are the regulations governing the movement of foreigners; tourists are not permitted into the district between 15 September and 15 April, and any foreigner visiting the Thule airbase requires a visitors pass issued by the US Air Attache, the Danish Ministry or the Danish embassy.  After you've had a look at the Knud Rasmussen Museum in Qaanaaq, there are very few human-made artefacts to hold your attention. The Thule District is for doing rather than looking; several spring dogsled tours are operational, as are eight-day trips between Qaanaaq and Siorapaluk. These trips include meals, seal and walrus-hunting and accommodation in cabins and igloos. However, the most challenging possibility is a 15-day hunting trip over the sea ice to several Avanersuaq villages.  Avanersuaq is over 1500km (930mi) north of Nuuk. The best way to get there is by plane; there are weekly flights from Kangerlussuaq. It is possible to get to the Thule District by ferry, but only if you luck out in a serious way. One boat does an annual run from Kangerlussuaq and Ilulissat to Qaanaq, normally in the first week of September when ice conditions are favourable.  
europe_hamburg_activities.html:  Activities  With all those lakes right in Hamburg's city centre, you won't be disappointed with boating opportunities; there are pedal, sail, row and even steam boats, all offering a great way to see the port. The city's flat topography makes for great cycling, especially along the paved paths around the Outer Alster, which is also good for in-line skating and walking.  Just a few hours drive from Hamburg, the Harz Mountains are known for their cross-country skiing and ski hikes, although resorts such as Braunlage, Hahnenklee and St Andreasberg also offer good downhill skiing. In summer the Harz Mountains are a centre for hiking, with short trails around the area; some have traditional restaurants along the way - a boon for hungry hikers.  
europe_hamburg_attractions.html:  Attractions  If you're looking for the highlights of the city's culture all neatly organised into a string of galleries and museums, then the Art Mile is just the ticket. Hamburg Kunsthalle houses a collection that ranges from medieval portraiture to 20th-century minimalism. Many of the artworks survived the Nazis' destructive 1937 sweep in which many of Germany's art treasures disappeared.  The stark white cube housing Kunsthalle's contemporary collection is the Galerie der Gegenwart, three floors of modern art with the likes of Jeff Koons, Cindy Sherman and David Hockney on display. If you're feeling arty or crafty, check out the Museum für Kunst und Gewerbe. It houses sculpture, furniture, jewellery, musical instruments and an authentic Japanese teahouse that holds regular tea ceremonies.  The latest and greatest by Hamburg's local artists is showcased at Kunsthaus, while the Deichtorhallen hosts visiting exhibitions as well as the photography of Helmut Newton, Annie Leibowitz and other happy snappers.  
europe_hamburg_facts.html:  When to Go  There isn't really a single time of year that is better than any other to visit Hamburg, because it can be chilly year round. While Germany can have pleasant summer weather, northern areas are known for their year-round Reizklima, or 'healthy, bracing climate'. Summer temperatures don't creep much over 20 C (68 F). Winter is prime ski time if you want to head south for the alps of the Harz Mountains.     Events  Hamburg's social schedule is packed all year with concerts, fairs, festivals, parties, conventions and exhibitions, but there are a few standout occasions. Established in 1329, Hamburger Dom is one of Europe's largest and oldest funfairs; it takes place in late March, late July and late November. Kicking off on 7 May, the Hafengeburtstag (Harbour Birthday) is a wild party raging on and off shore to celebrate the day the German Emperor Barbarossa granted the city customs exemption and secured its future as a trading power.  Most banks and businesses close on public holidays, which along with the usual New Year's Day, Easter and Christmas include Labour Day (1 May), Ascension (May), Whitsun (May/June), Wäldchestag (May/June), Corpus Christi (May/June) and German Unification (3 October).    
europe_hamburg_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Every Sunday morning the cobbled streets just south of the Reeperbahn are invaded by a fleet of small trucks which pour a market onto the banks of the Elbe. Locals have been wandering through the elaborate displays of fruit, vegetables and seafood every week since 1703. The market superstars are the stallholders, who flirt, cajole and tease passers-by, some proffering - with a healthy dose of innuendo - eels for sampling.  If you want more sedate entertainment, head for the Fischauktionshalle (Fish Auction Hall), where a live band covers obscure German pop. Everyone sings along; listen out for Nina's '99 Red Balloons' as you gobble a gourmet breakfast.  
europe_helsinki_activities.html:  Activities  Helsinkiites love the outdoors, and the city provides ample parks, gardens and squares to accommodate active citizens. Rollerblading is very popular, as is bicycling. The bike and skate route map is free at the city tourist office, and there are many rental options. Golfers are also well catered for, with many golf courses around Helsinki.  Helsinki has several public swimming pools with inexpensive admission. The most impressive is the Itäkeskus swimming hall. The entire underground swimming hall - with several pools, saunas and a gym - is carved from rock and can also double as a bomb shelter for 3800 people. Saunas are a national obsession - find out why at one of the public facilities (unless you're lucky enough to be invited to a home sauna).   Boating is an enjoyable way to spend a day. Cruise on a historic steamship, or take a shorter sea cruise from the fish market. The trip around the island of Laajasalo is probably the most interesting.  The city's parks and surrounding forests have excellent hiking trails, which become skiing trails in winter. For a less strenuous walk, take a stroll along the lovely Esplanadi or around the market square, where you can browse for fresh fish, berries and arts and crafts.  
europe_helsinki_attractions.html:  Attractions  The thumping heart of Helsinki is the bustling kauppatori (market square), also known as the fish market. It is surrounded by graceful 19th-century buildings - some of the few remaining in the city after the devastation of WWII. Havis Amanda, the lovely mermaid statue and fountain just west of the fish market, was designed in 1908 by one of Finland's most beloved artists, Ville Vallgren. The statue, also known as 'Manta,' is commonly regarded as the symbol of Helsinki - if not all of Finland.  Across from the kauppatori is the Presidential Palace, originally built in 1814 as the local residence for the Russian czar. It is now the president's official home, though the president is often away on diplomatic missions.  
europe_helsinki_facts.html:  When to Go  Helsinki enjoys a milder climate than much of Finland, and due to the Baltic Sea and the gentle winds from the Gulf Stream, it is also warmer than many other northern countries. That said, it's still quite cold (and dark) in the winter. The most enjoyable months to visit are June through September. In July, local folk desert the city for their summer cottages, and many offices are closed. However, it's a grand time to visit as a foreign tourist - the weather is pleasant, the markets bustle and the cafes and bars set up their outdoor tables. If you're interested in culture, book your trip during August, when a major arts festival and countless smaller performances will keep you entertained.     Events  On 30 April (May Day eve) and 1 May Vappu (May Day), the festival of students and workers, is a serious affair in Helsinki. Helsinki Day (12 June), celebrating the city's anniversary, brings many free and cheap activities to Esplanadi Park. Throughout the summer, free classical and pop concerts are held every Sunday in Kaivopuisto park. The event of the year is the Helsinki Festival, an arts fest which runs from late August through early September. The festival's high point is the Night of the Arts, with more than 100 free events. Another fun August festival is Art Goes Kapakka (Art Goes Bars), where musicians, poets, dancers and other performers take over the pubs.  In September there's the week-long Love and Anarchy Film Festival is a week-long. In early October the annual Baltic Herring Market, a 200-year-old tradition, takes place at the market square. Helsinki hosts an ethnic music festival, Etnosoi, in early November. Christmas is a special time in Helsinki, with the big Lucia parade in mid-December. Things slow down after the New Year, as locals stay inside during the coldest and darkest months of the year. In spring, music lovers reemerge for the April Jazz Festival, featuring top-name Finnish and international performers.   Public Holidays 1 January - NBew Year's Day 6 January - Epiphany March/April - Good Friday March/april - Easter 30 April - May Day Eve 1 May - May Day May - Ascension Day late May/early June - Whit Sunday third weekend in June - Midsummer's Eve & Day 1 November - All Saints Day 6 December - Independence Day 24 December - Christmas Eve 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to HelsinkiTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_helsinki_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  West of the center, Seurasaari Island provides a charming glimpse of Finland past. The open-air museum recreates a rural village, complete with 18th- and 19th-century houses taken from around the country. Guides dressed in traditional costume demonstrate crafts such as spinning, embroidery and troll-making. Shops sell old-fashioned treats, and folk-dancing performances are scheduled frequently during the summer. Midsummer Eve is especially festive - a huge bonfire kicks off the celebrations, and a real wedding takes place in the Karuna Church.  The park opened in the late 19th century, when it was only accessible by boat. It's been popular with locals and visitors ever since. The buildings are closed during the winter, but the park is open for cross-country skiing and invigorating walks.  
europe_holy_see_attractions.html:  Attractions  Bernini's piazza is considered a masterpiece. Laid out in the 17th century as a place for the Christians of the world to gather, the immense piazza is bounded by two semicircular colonnades, each of which is made up of four rows of Doric columns. In the centre of the piazza is an obelisk brought to Rome by Caligula from Heliopolis in ancient Egypt. If you stand on the dark paving stones between the obelisk and either of two fountains, the columns line up in perfect rows so that the massive columns behind can't be seen. Be prepared to fight your way onto the disks - not many people know they are there, but those who do will likely be standing on them waving fundementalist placards and umbrellas. The oval-shaped piazza is located on the eastern boundary of the Holy See. The square is also home to the Vatican's post office.  
europe_holy_see_facts.html:  When to Go  Religious ceremonies attract hundreds of thousands of visitors to the Vatican, with Christmas and Easter being the best-attended feasts. Each Christmas, the Pope himself says Mass to the standing-room-only crowd. Unless you've got special business, however, the city virtually shuts down on religious holidays. Rome is at its best in spring (April-May) and autumn (October-November). During these seasons the scenery is beautiful, the temperatures are pleasant, and there are relatively few crowds. Try to avoid August, as this is the time that most Italians take their vacations, and many shops and businesses are closed as a result.     Events  Mass is said daily in the Vatican (not always by the Pope, of course). Details about the services are available from the tourist office in the Piazza. If he's at home, the Pope usually gives a public audience on Wednesday mornings. Permission to attend must be sought in advance, either from an office near the Basilica or in writing.    
europe_holy_see_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  One of Rome's four patriarchal basilicas, Santa Maria Maggiore dates back to the 5th century. The main facade was added in the 18th century, preserving the glorious 13th-century mosaics of the earlier facade. With a baroque interior and a Romanesque bell tower, the basilica's most notable feature is a cycle of mosaics from the 5th century that decorate the arch and nave, depicting biblical scenes. The sumptuously decorated Sistine chapel, last on the right, contains the tombs of popes Sixtus V and Pius V. The basilica is about 8km (5mi) east of the Vatican, just west of the Stazione Termini in Rome.  
europe_hungary_activities.html:  Activities  Among the country's activities are bird-watching and horse riding in the Hortob gy region; hiking in the M tra Hills and in the Zemplen Hills near Tokaj; canoeing on the Tisza River; and caving in Aggtelek. You can sightsee by ultra-light aircraft over Lake Balaton, as well as cycle around its shores, or windsurf on its waters.  
europe_hungary_attractions.html:  Attractions  Hungary's capital straddles a gentle curve in the Danube. It's the administrative as well as the business and cultural centre of Hungary, and virtually everything that happens in the country starts, finishes or is taking place here. But the beauty of Budapest is what really makes it stand apart. Its broad avenues, leafy parks and harmonious blend of architectural styles has earned it the nickname the 'Paris of Eastern Europe'. Budapest also has a turn-of-the-century feel to it, for it was then - during the industrial boom and the capital's heyday - that most of the city was built. The city is well laid-out, rarely confusing, and ideal for walking.  The walled Castle District is the premier destination for visitors, and contains some of Budapest's most important monuments and museums. It consists of two distinct parts: the Old Town, where commoners lived during medieval times; and the Royal Palace, the original site of a castle built in the 13th century. The Old Town is filled with attractively painted streets, decorative churches and the famous Fishermen's Bastion. The latter was built as a viewing platform in 1905, and named after the guild of fishermen responsible for defending this stretch of wall in the Middle Ages. It has commanding views over the city, and is dominated by seven gleaming turrets (representing the seven Magyar tribes who entered the Carpathian Basin in the 9th century), and a statue of St Stephen on horseback. Immediately south of the Old Town is the Royal Palace. Razed, rebuilt and redesigned over the past seven centuries, the palace houses a number of museums, including the National Gallery, which has an enormous collection devoted exclusively to Hungarian art.  The oldest and one of the most interesting parts of the city is  buda. The area is remarkable for its Roman ruins, and its small, quiet neighbourhoods which seem unchanged since the turn of the century. It also has its fair share of museums, including the Kiscelli Museum, which features an impressive art collection and rooms furnished with Empire, Biedermeier and Art-Nouveau furniture. North of buda is the Roman civilian town of Aquincum, the most complete in Hungary. Established at the end of the 1st century, it was among the most developed towns on the continent with sumptuous single-storey houses, fountains and courtyards. Not much remains of that today, but you can still see their outlines as well as those of the big public baths, market and a temple devoted to the sun god Mithras. The Aquincum Museum tries to put it all in perspective - unfortunately only in Hungarian. However, you can check out the 3rd-century water organ, pottery moulds and floor mosaics, and the sculptures and stone sarcophagi outside.  Budapest's other highlights include a cruise along the Danube, strolling along the riverfront or across romantic bridges, browsing through antique bookshops and jewellery stores, or 'taking the waters' at one of the city's many spas.  Budget accommodation can be found in Pest or the Buda Hills, respectively west and east of the city centre, while there's plenty of cheap places to eat in the Castle District. The Esceri flea market (in the XIX district, south of the city) is one of the best and biggest in Eastern Europe, and sells everything from Soviet army watches to Fred Astaire top hats. Budapest has an ample choice of things to do after dark - from opera, theatre, ballet and dance to rock, pop, jazz, and meat-market discos.  
europe_hungary_environment.html:  Environment  Hungary is a kidney-shaped country lying in the centre of Europe sharing borders with seven neighbours: Austria, Slovakia, Ukraine, Romania, Yugoslavia, Croatia and Slovenia. There are three basic topographies: the low-lying regions of the Great Plain in the east, centre and south-east, and the Little Plain in the north-west; the northern mountain ranges, which include Hungary's highest peak (the 1015-metre-high Kekesteto); and the hilly regions of Transdanubia in the west and south-west. The biggest rivers are the Danube and the Tisza, which divide the country into thirds, and the Dr va which forms the south-western border with Croatia. The country has over 1000 lakes - the largest, Balaton, is strewn with thermal springs.  Almost 70% of Hungary is under cultivation and only 14% remains forested. Most of the forests are beech and oak, and there's a small percentage of fir. Common animals include deer, wild hare, boar and otter, and there's also rare species such as wild cat, lake bat and Pannonian lizard. However, the majority of the country's vertebrates are birds, especially waterfowl attracted by the numerous rivers, lakes and wetlands. There are five national parks and almost 1000 protected areas.  Hungary's climate is temperate, and the country can be divided into three climatic zones: Mediterranean in the south, Continental in the east, and Atlantic in the west. In Southern Transdanubia, summers are long and winters mild and wet. The Great Plain has the most extreme seasonal differences with cold, windy winters and hot, usually dry summers. Summers can be very hot in Budapest and Western Transdanubia, with winters relatively short, often cloudy but sometimes brilliantly sunny. The mean average temperature in Hungary is 11 degrees centigrade. January is the coldest month (minus two degrees Celsius) and July the hottest (28 degrees Celsius).  
europe_hungary_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of the USA, Canada, New Zealand, Asian countries and most European countries don't require visas; German and French citizens need only show their identity cards. Nationals of Australia require visas, which are valid for between 30 and 90 days. Visas may be purchased upon arrival.Health risks: NoneTime:GMT/UTC plus one hour (winter); plus two hours (summer)Electricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism:20 million visitors per year When to Go  Though it can be pretty wet in May and June, spring is just glorious in Hungary. The Hungarian summer is warm, sunny and unusually long, but the resorts are very crowded in late July and August. Like Paris and Rome, Budapest comes to a halt in August (called 'the cucumber-growing season' here because that's about the only thing happening).  Autumn is beautiful, particularly in the hills around Budapest and in the Northern Uplands. November is one of the rainiest months of the year, however. Winter is cold, often bleak and museums and other tourist sights are often closed. Animal lovers will also want to skip this season: half the women are draped in furry dead things throughout the winter.     Events  Hungary's major celebration is the Budapest Spring Festival (March), a two-week cultural extravaganza of local and international performances, conferences and exhibitions. Other important events include: the Budapest Film Festival (February), which premieres new Hungarian films; Bus j r s (Moh s; February also), the nation's top Mardi Gras; Sopron Festival Weeks (Sopron; June/July), showcasing ancient music and dance performances; the Folk Arts Festival (Nagyk ll ; August), one of the biggest and best events of the year; and Jazz Days (Debrecen; September), which is Hungary's top jazz festival.    
europe_hungary_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This tranquil village is the home of the Pannonhalma Abbey. Founded by Benedictine monks almost 1000 years ago, the monastery has been destroyed and rebuilt many times and is now a crazy quilt of Turkish, Romanesque and Gothic architectural styles. The interior is beautiful, despite the butchery, and includes a neoclassical library containing some 300,000 volumes (making it the largest private library in Hungary); historical archives holding some of the earliest surviving examples of written Hungarian; a gallery with works by Dutch, Italian and Austrian masters from the 16th to 18th centuries; and, above the red-marble arched doorway, a fresco depicting the patron, St Martin of Tours. Look down to the right near St Martin and you'll see, written in Latin, perhaps the oldest graffiti in Hungary: 'Benedict Padary was here in 1578.' Pannonhalma is a working monastery, and must be visited with a guide. It is 18km southeast of Gyor, in Western Transdanubia.  
europe_iceland_activities.html:  Activities  There are unlimited trekking opportunities in Iceland, and walks can range from an afternoon hike to a two-week wilderness trek. Some of the country's best hiking can be found in the remote areas of Landmannalaugar, L trabjarg and Hornstrandir, or in Reykjanesf lkvangur, right in Reykjav k's backyard. There are good skiing facilities at Reykjav k, Akureyri, Bl fjöll (just southeast of Reykjav k) and Hl arfjall (near Akureyri). You can also try sledding on the Langjökull Icecap, whitewater rafting on the Hv t (White River), spelunking in the Hallmundarhraun Caves near H safell, horseback riding in the interior and swimming in geothermal pools. For something a little different, you can have a hit-out at the Arctic Open, held in Akureyri, which is an all-night 'midnight sun' golf tournament attracting amateurs and professionals from around the world.  
europe_iceland_attractions.html:  Attractions  Iceland's capital is unlike any other European city. Not only is Reykjav k ('Smoky Bay') the world's northernmost capital, it's also one of the newest, having established itself only in the late 19th century. Despite its name, it is now known as the 'smokeless city' thanks to its incessant winds and reliance on geothermal heat. Reykjav k boasts all the trappings of a modern European city as well as an interesting old town, white-washed wooden buildings, and rows of brightly painted concrete houses. Nearly everything of interest is within walking distance of the old settlement.  The Old Town, the city's hub, is a rustic area of grassy parks, lakes, markets and museums. Anyone remotely interested in Norse and Icelandic culture should head for the National Museum, which houses exhibits of religious and folk relics, and tools dating from the period of Settlement. The most renowned is a church door, carved around 1200, which depicts a Norse battle scene, while residing in the basement are nautical and agricultural tools and models of early fishing boats and ingenious farm implements. Immediately behind the museum is the  rni Magn sson Institute, a must-see for Saga buffs. The building contains a famous collection of works, including the Landn mab k and Nj ls Saga, which were returned from Denmark to independent Iceland.  Modern Reykjav k sprawls eastward from the Old Town, and features several worthwhile attractions such as Hallgr mskirkja, an imposing church designed to resemble a mountain of lava. Although the word 'tacky' may spring to mind, it's easily the city's most memorable structure. Begun in the late 1940s and completed in 1974, the church is named after Iceland's best-known poet, Hallgr mur Petursson. You can wander its stark, light-filled interior, then take a lift to the top of a 75m-high (246ft) tower which offers superb views of the city. On the lawn is a statue of Leif Eriksson, triumphantly identified as the 'Son of Iceland, Discoverer of Vinland' (believed to be Newfoundland or Labrador).  Another place with an outwardly tacky appearance is the Volcano Show. Again, don't be put off by the design; this theatre offers invaluable insights into the volcanic spectre under (or over) which Icelanders live. Here you can see dramatic film of some of the country's greatest volcanic eruptions, including one award-winning film of the birth of Surtsey, which belched and spewed its way - Exorcist-like - out of the sea in 1963. Other sights include a pleasant botanic garden, a popular recreational park and a number of museums dedicated to the works of Iceland's leading artists.  Budget accommodation, cheap eats and bargain shopping are found in or just east of the Old Town. For entertainment, there's cinema (films are screened in their original language with Icelandic subtitles), cultural performances (theatre, opera, symphony, and dance) and light shows (sagas, Settlement and Viking extravaganzas). Runtur is a bit of a Reykjav k institution, which involves trawling through the city's hip bars, live music venues and discos to make sure no-one's missing the best action.  
europe_iceland_environment.html:  Environment  Iceland, the second largest island in Europe, boils and splutters in the Atlantic Ocean northwest of Scotland, west of Norway and southeast of Greenland. The main island, which stretches 500km (310mi) east to west and 300km (186mi) north to south, is characterised by desert plateaus, sandy deltas, volcanoes, lava fields, and glacial icecaps. Over half the country is above 400m (1300ft), with the highest point, Hvannadalshn kur, rising 2119m (6952ft). Only 21% of the land, all near the coast, is considered arable and habitable. The bulk of Iceland's population and agriculture is concentrated in the southwest between Reykjav k and V k.  Iceland is a relatively young land mass subject to periodic rumpling by volcanic activity. Earthquakes are as exciting as breakfast here, with people only bothering to tip their fur hats to proper explosions, ones that pose an island where once there was ocean, ones that sculpt the earth anew. It's hardly surprising with all this rumbling, shaking and spouting that the landscape is remarkable devoid of trees (though, in fairness, massive reforestation means the country now enjoys a few recreational forests and patches of scrubby birch). What the country does have, however, is large expanses of tundra, grassland, bogs and barren desert. The only indigenous land mammal is the Arctic fox, although polar bears, which occasionally drift across from Greenland on ice floes, would be indigenous if they weren't considered so undesirable. Introduced animals include the reindeer, mink and field mice. The country has a wealth of birdlife, especially sea birds, and its seas are rich in marine mammals and fish. Freshwater fish are limited to eels, salmon, trout and Arctic char.  Iceland's southern and western coasts experience relatively mild winter temperatures thanks to the warm waters of the Gulf Stream, though it still tends to rain an awful lot. In January, for instance, Reykjav k enjoys an average of only three sunny days (in July, one fine day is the norm). July and August are the warmest months and, in general, the chances of fine weather improve as you move north and east. It's sunniest around Akureyri and Lake M vatn in the central north and warmest around Egilssta oir in the east, yet neither place seems to be free of an uncomfortably chilly wind. While they're more prone to clear weather than the coastal areas, the interior deserts can experience other problems such as blizzards, and high winds which whip up dust and sand into swirling, gritty maelstroms.  
europe_iceland_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Western Europeans and citizens of the USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore and at least two dozen other countries do not require visas. Tourist stays are granted for up to three months, and can be easily extended at local police stations.Health risks: Hypothermia if trekkingTime:GMT/UTCElectricity: 220V, 50 cyclesWeights & measures: MetricTourism:150,000 visitors per year When to Go  Every year after 31 August, someone puts on the brakes and Icelandic tourism grinds slowly to a halt. Hotels close, youth hostels and camping grounds shut down and buses stop running. Many late-summer travellers are disappointed to find that all the most popular attractions are practically inaccessible by 15 September, and by 30 September it seems the entire country, save Reykjav k, has gone into hibernation. Although it's safe to predict that the situation will change in coming years, for now it's a good idea to plan your trip with this in mind.     Events   The largest nationwide festival of the year is Independence Day (17 June), a time of colourful parades, street music and dancing, outdoor theatre and general merriment. Other nationwide celebrations include: Sj mannadagurinn (first week in June), which is dedicated to seafarers, and has participants competing in swimming contests, tugs-of-war and sea rescues; Midsummer (24 June), when tradition has it that Midsummer Night's dew possesses magical healing powers and that to roll in it naked will cure 19 different health problems; and Sumardagurinn Fyrsti (the third Thursday in April), a carnival-style celebration for the first day of summer. Among the local festivals is Pj dh t Vestmannaeyjar (August; Vestmannaeyjar), an earth-shaking event of immense bonfires, outdoor camping, dancing, singing, eating and getting uproariously drunk. Elsewhere in Iceland Verslunarmannahelgi (August) is celebrated with barbecues, horse competitions, camping out, family reunions and excessive alcohol consumption.    
europe_iceland_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Helgafell is the holy mountain that figured so prominently in Icelandic history and literature. In reality, it's a 73m (240ft) hill, yet it apparently still retains some of its magic, and those who follow a few simple rules while climbing it are entitled to have three wishes granted. First, you must climb the southwest slope to the temple ruins without speaking or glancing backwards. Second, the wishes must be for good and made with a guileless heart. Third, you must descend the eastern slope and never reveal your wishes to anyone. Helgafell is 5km (3mi) south of Stykkish lmur, in west central Iceland.  
europe_ionian_islands_activities.html:  Activities  The pretty fishing village of Vasiliki, on Lefkada, is purported to have the best windsurfing beach in Europe, and is an especially good place to learn the sport. All the islands apart from Kefallonia and Ithaki have water-skiing facilities. Snorkelling is especially good off Paleokastritsa, on Corfu's west coast, and there's also a diving school there and on Lefkada, Kefallonia and Zakynthos (independent diving is strictly forbidden in the Ionians). You don't have to emulate Onassis to enjoy yachting in the fabled waters of the Ionian Sea: join a crew, charter a yacht or hire your own motorboat. Trekking around the islands can be hugely enjoyable - but avoid July-August, as it's just too darn hot. Corfu's Ionian University runs courses in Modern Greek and Greek Civilisation in July-August - let's hope those classrooms are air-conditioned! Sunny Sundays in Corfu Town see cricket matches played on the only cricket ground in Greece.  
europe_ionian_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  Homer's 'beautiful and rich land' is the best known of the Ionian Islands, a beguiling place of wildflowers and cypress groves, Venetian architecture and herb-scented mountains. Enough beauty remains for Corfu (Kerkyra) to be considered one of the most beautiful of the Greek islands, but much has been ruined in the past 30 years by unscrupulous and indiscriminate development.  The island's capital is the promontory city of Corfu Town, flanked by fortresses old and new. At the city's heart is the gorgeously gardened Spianada and its elegant row of cafe-filled arcades, the Liston, built by the French and modelled on Paris' rue de Rivoli. Corfu Town's Archaeological Museum is famous for its Gorgon Medusa sculpture, one of the best-preserved pieces of Archaic sculpture in the whole of Greece, and the town also has notable museums devoted to Asiatic art, Byzantine icons - and paper money. But the best thing to do in Corfu Town is to simply wander the narrow alleyways of the Venetian old town, past Georgian mansions, Byzantine churches and shuttered buildings stuccoed in muted shades of ochre and pink. Leave some time for exploring the two fortresses, gasping at the stunning views and sampling the nightlife at the Liston's people-packed cafes - by day they make excellent members stands for watching the cricket played on the nearby Spianada, a decidedly unique experience in these Greco-Italianate surrounds.  More than one million visitors descend on Corfu every year, the vast majority of them package tourists heading for the beach resorts that have all-but ruined the island's east coast. Unless crowded beaches and rowdy bars have huge appeal, it's best to give the ugly resorts north of Corfu Town a wide berth and head northeast to Nisaki, with its tiny pebble beach and handful of tavernas and domatia (rooms for rent), and Agni, whose excellent tavernas are regarded by those in the know as the gourmet heart of Corfu. The beaches of Kalami are far more crowded than when Lawrence Durrell and his wife stayed there in the late 1930s, and the views wouldn't then have been marred by pink apartment blocks - but today's views of neighbouring Albania are still as good. Nearby there's the pretty little Venetian harbour of Kouloura and the harbour-resort village of Kassiopi, still bearing visible traces of its Hellenistic, Roman, Byzantine and Venetian past.   Mt Pantokrator is inland, at 906m (2970ft) the island's highest peak and a popular destination for walkers - the enormous radio antenna on its summit is a little unfortunate though. This mountain region is dotted with abandoned villages like Old Perithia, poignantly attractive in their state of decay. The beach at Almyros is a superb stretch of golden sand lapped by family-friendly shallow waters - facilities are limited but it'll only be a matter of minutes before the commercial activity of nearby Aharavi takes over. For a glimpse of the formerly idyllic appearance of resort towns like Roda and Sidhari, visit the tiny, unspoilt fishing village of Astrakeri - or rather, don't!  The hook of land dangling 5km (3mi) south of Corfu Town is the Kanoni Peninsula, the site of the ancient capital. Ancient ruins are liberally sprinkled throughout this region, including the circular Tomb of Menecrates and Temple of Artemis (the original sites of the lion and gorgon now housed in Corfu Town's museum). The much-photographed offshore islets include the dazzling white monastery of Moni Vlahernas and Mouse Island, topped by a 13th-century church. Corfu's southern reaches can pretty much be ignored, although Ahillion Palace is worth a look, if only to scoff at its vulgar 19th-century aesthetics; it's near the village of Gastouri. Holiday hooligans used to head to nearby Benitses, until it was ruined, so now they head north to cut a swathe through the coastline's few remaining unspoilt coves and fishing villages. The Boukaris-Kavos stretch of coastline isn't bad, with pebbly beaches and just a few tavernas - but stop short of the lager-lout ghetto of Kavos.  Corfu's best beaches are on the west coast, and development here is surprisingly under control - for now. The 3km (2mi) golden-sand stretch of Agios Georgios is a haven for watersports enthusiasts, and nearby Afionas has Neolithic ruins and sweeping coastal views. The west coast's largest resort is the beautiful but increasingly developed Paleokastritsa (26km/16mi west of Corfu Town), with sandy and pebbled coves, a verdant mountain backdrop and unparalleled snorkelling in grottoes and caves. A couple of villages south of Paleokastritsa have nabbed the independent travel set, including hill-top Pelekas, with its spectacular sunsets and range of accommodation from pensions to a country club. Myrtiotissa is the island's unofficial nudist beach - complete with body painting and fresh-water pipe for freelance campers. Agios Gordios is heading the way of all resorts, but its beach and hostel continue to attract more backpackers than package tourists.  
europe_ionian_islands_environment.html:  Environment  The Ionian Islands are scattered off the Greek mainland's west coast. Corfu is the northernmost island, its length lying parallel with both Albania and Epiros in Greece's north, and its northern tip a mere 100km (62mi) or so from Italy's heel. Paxi comes next, followed by Lefkada which is linked to the mainland region of Sterea Ellada by a causeway. Kefallonia is just a little further south, with Ithaki snuggled along its eastern flank. Zakynthos lies offshore the Peloponnese, and almost as an afterthought there's Kythira, separated from Zakynthos by a long stretch of sea and lying between the mainland's southern tip and the island of Crete. Kefallonia and Corfu are the largest islands in the group, and Paxi is the smallest. Tourism development tends to be concentrated on the islands' gently sloping east coasts, leaving the rocky, cliff-edged west coasts to the birds, trekkers and beach-lovers with access to a boat.  The islands shelter a wide variety of bird life. Wagtails, tits, larks, swallows and thrushes make their homes in the olive groves and remaining forests, and migrating herons and egrets stop off while making the long haul from Africa to Europe. European mammals such as foxes, squirrels, hedgehogs and bats are common, as are lizards, snakes and butterflies; dolphins used to be frequent visitors to the waters off Paxi but sightings are rare nowadays. The Ionian Sea is most famous for housing around 40 monk seals, Europe's rarest mammal, but with tourism ever increasing their future looks grim. The waters surrounding Zakynthos are also home to Europe's sole remaining large sea turtle colony, that of the loggerhead. Greece has long turned a blind eye to the environmental dangers posed by tourism development, but despite such complacency the National Marine Park of Zakynthos has at long last been established to provide some protection for the island's endangered loggerhead turtles, monk seals and coastal and marine ecosystems. The hideous resort on the Bay of Laganas has been particularly targeted by wildlife groups, and Greece is facing the judgement of the European Court for failing to comply with the EU's environmental directives.  Unlike the stark and often treeless islands of the Aegean, the Ionians are covered with luxuriant vegetation, thanks to the useful rainfall they receive - Corfu cops a whopping 240mm (10in) average downpour in December, and is the wettest place in all of Greece. Tropical orchids, wildflowers, eucalypts and acacias combine with northern European greenery such as oaks and maples. Despite their lush vegetation and high precipitation, the islands can be stiflingly hot and muggy, as the humidity-reducing meltemi passes them by. To compensate, winters are less severe than on the mainland. Average Corfu temperatures range from 32 C (90 F) in July-August to 15 C (55 F) in December-February.  
europe_ionian_islands_facts.html:  When to Go  As in other Greek island groups, prime time in the Ionians is late spring to early summer and autumn - that's Easter to mid-June and September-October. The winter off-season months (November to early April) aren't too bad weatherwise, but most hotels and restaurants are closed, and bus and ferry services are nigh nonexistent. On remote Kythira things start winding down in early September. Mid-June to the end of August is party time on the islands - swell if you like things sweltering, swarming and sold-out.     Events  The February/March pre-Lenten Carnival is a particularly big deal on Kefallonia and Zakynthos, with all the expected feasting, dancing and mayhem. Greek Easter (March-April) is huge everywhere in Greece but particularly so on Corfu, where the mummified body of the town's patron saint, Saint Spyridon, is given an airing on Palm Sunday and Easter Sunday. Candlelit processions take place in towns and villages throughout the Ionians on Good Friday, and the next evening's Resurrection Mass is marked by fireworks and more candlelit processions. The islands celebrate their Unification Day on 21 May with wreath-laying, marches and military parades. Saint Spyridon's remains are taken for another jaunt around Corfu Town on 11 August, St Spyridon's Day, and marching bands, community leaders and packs of people throng the city's streets. Cultural pursuits are highlighted in July and August, with Kefallonia's cultural festival and art exhibitions, Lefkada's International Festival of Literature & Art and the Paxos Festival of Music. Assumption (15 August) is an important religious festival throughout the islands, though the most bizarre of the Assumption festivities would have to be the phenomenon of the Virgin's snakes in Markopoulo on Kefallonia.  Banks, shops and most museums close on New Year's Day, Epiphany (6 January), the first Sunday in Lent (February), Greek Independence Day (25 March), Good Friday & Easter Sunday (March/April), Labour Day (1 May), Feast of the Assumption (15 August), Ohi Day (28 October), Christmas Day and St Stephen's Day (26 December). On Corfu some businesses close on St Spyridon's Day (11 August).    
europe_ionian_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Scattered like forgotten stepping stones to Italy, this cluster of little-known and rarely visited islands lies a day trip away from Corfu's northern tip. Of the five islands, only Ereikousa, Mathraki and Othoni are inhabited, and even these are depopulated as most residents have high-tailed it to New York City. Ereikousa is the most popular of the three inhabited islands, and closest to Corfu. It's not quite the deserted island getaway of its promotional literature, although its beaches are great and you can count the accommodation and eating possibilities on one hand. Mathraki is wild, wooded and peaceful, with some great solitary walks and a lovely long beach. Othoni is the greatest distance from Corfu, and popular with Italian yachties - there's even an Italian restaurant on the island. Beach bums may find Othoni's pebbled beaches hardgoing, but the interior is wooded and the inland village of Horio has great views. Boats head out to the Diapondia Islands from Corfu Town three times a week in summer, and day excursions make the jaunt from Sidhari.  
europe_ireland_activities.html:  Activities   Walking is one of Ireland's biggest attractions, and the country has miles of tailor-made walks. They include the Kerry Way, Beara Way, Ulster Way and Wicklow Way. It's a great way to open up the country and reach its most beautiful and fascinating corners. Cycling is another good way of getting away from the hordes, although some areas are prohibitively hilly. There are a number of excellent mountain-climbing opportunities, particularly Mt Gabriel (407m/1335ft) on the Mizen Head Peninsula, Hungry Hill (686m/2195ft) on the Beara Peninsula and Croagh Patrick (763m/2500ft) just outside Westport.  Ireland is renowned for its fishing, and many visitors come to the country just to cast a line. Permits are required (IR 5 a day), and a state national licence is required for salmon and sea trout. With a coastline measuring 5630km (3490mi), let alone its rivers and lakes, Ireland offers many opportunities for water sports. Good surfing spots include Easkey in the west of County Sligo, the Castlegregory Peninsula and Barley Cove on the Mizen Head Peninsula. The west coast offers some of Europe's best scuba diving, especially at Bantry Bay and Dunmanus Bay in County Cork, the Inveragh Peninsula in Kerry and around Hook Head in County Wexford. Sailing has a long heritage in Ireland, and the country has over 120 yacht and sailing clubs. The most popular areas for sailing are the west coast, especially between Cork Harbour and the Dingle Peninsula, the coastline north and south of Dublin, and larger lakes such as Lough Derg, Lough Erne and Lough Gill.  
europe_ireland_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Republic's capital, and its largest and most cosmopolitan city, Dublin makes a fine introduction to the country. It's a curious and colourful city of fine Georgian buildings, tangible literary history and extremely welcoming pubs, all on a scale that's very human. The city is bisected by the River Liffey, and is bounded to the north and south by hills. Most of the sights of interest are located south of the Liffey, which unlike most city rivers is a rural-looking stream with real fish living in it. The area to the north of the Liffey may be more run down than the south, but, according to Roddy Doyle, it's got more soul.  While heading south over the Liffey, you can't help but notice the huge white expanse of the 1780s Custom House on the northern bank, just one of Dublin's many fine Georgian buildings. Also on the north of the Liffey, the Four Courts were built by the same architect, James Gandon; their shelling in 1922 sparked off the Civil War. There are fine views of the city from the upper rotunda of the central building.   Trinity College is uppermost in the list of attractions south of the river. Founded by Elizabeth I in 1592, the university complex boasts a campanile and many glorious old buildings. Its major attraction, however, is the Book of Kells - an illuminated manuscript dating from around 800 AD, making it one of the oldest books in the world. The masterpiece is housed in the Library Colonnades. Other magnificent buildings include the imposing Bank of Ireland, originally built to house the Irish Parliament; Christ Church Cathedral, parts of which date back to the original wooden Danish church of the 11th century; and St Patrick's Cathedral, said to have been built on the site where St Patrick baptised his converts, and dating from 1190 or 1225 (opinions differ).  Another of Dublin's more obvious landmarks is its castle. More a palace than a fort, it was originally built on the orders of King John in 1204, although only the Record Tower survives from this original construction. One of the oldest areas of Dublin is the maze of streets around Temple Bar, now home to numerous restaurants, pubs and trendy shops. Dublin's fine museums include the National Museum, with an enviable collection of treasures dating from the Bronze Age onwards; the National Gallery, with particularly fine collections of Italian art; the Heraldic Museum, for those interested in tracing their Irish roots; and the Dublin Civic Museum.  Dublin's fine Georgian buildings can be see to their best advantage from St Stephen's Green - a nine-hectare expanse of greenery right in the city centre. Other notable vantage points for spotting Georgian architecture include Merrion Square, Ely Place and Fitzwilliam Square.  Dublin has a wide range of accommodation possibilities, though it's wise to book ahead in summer. There's a congregation of hostels around O'Connell St, north of the Liffey, while the south side is given over to neater, cleaner (and more expensive) places. The area just north of the river is packed with restaurants of all types. The old, interesting and rapidly revitalising Temple Bar area, south of the Liffey, is Dublin's most concentrated restaurant area.  
europe_ireland_environment.html:  Environment  Small-beaked and wing-clipped, Ireland is an island in the Atlantic Ocean which appears about to alight on the coast of Britain 80km (50mi) to the west across the Irish Sea. It stretches 500km (310mi) north to south and 300km (186mi) east to west, and contains only two fully fledged cities of any size, so it's never far to isolated sweeps of mountain or bogland.  Much of Ireland's elevated ground is close to the coast, and almost the entire Atlantic seaboard, from Cork to Donegal, is a bulwark of cliffs, hills and mountains, with few safe anchorages. Most of the centre of the island is composed of flat farmland or raised bogs. This area is drained by the 260km (161mi) long Shannon, which enters the sea west of Limerick.  The Irish landscape and predominant flora that you see today are almost wholly the result of human influence. Before the famine, the pressure on the land was enormous and even the most inaccessible of places were farmed. On the hillsides, above today's fields, you can still occasionally see the faint regular lines of pre-famine potato ridges called lazy beds.  As a result of the pressure on the land, only 1% of the native oak forests which once covered Ireland remain, much of it now replaced by dull columns of plantation pine. Foxes and badgers are the most common native land mammals, but you might also spot hares, hedgehogs, squirrels, shrews, bats and red deer. Otters, stoats and pine martens are also found in remote areas. Many migrating birds roost in Ireland, and there are still a couple of native species lurking about: corncrakes can be found in the flooded grasslands of the Shannon Callows and parts of Donegal. Choughs, unusual crows with bright red feet and beaks, can be seen in the dunes along the western coastline.  Despite its northern latitude, Ireland's climate is moderated by the Gulf Stream, bringing the dregs of Caribbean balminess, as well as turtles and triggerfish. The temperature only drops below freezing intermittently during the winter and snow is scarce. Summers aren't stinking hot, rarely hitting 30 C (86 F), but they're comfortable and it stays light until around 11 pm. Whatever the time of year, be prepared for rain because Ireland is wet. The heaviest rain usually falls where the scenery is best, such as around Kerry, which can be drizzle-bound on as many as 270 days of the year. If you do find the rain getting you down you might find some comfort in the Irish saying: 'It doesn't rain in the pub'!  
europe_ireland_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas:For citizens of the EU and most Western countries no visa is required. UK nationals born in Great Britain or Northern Ireland do not require a passport to visit the RepublicHealth risks: None, but keep in mind that abortions are illegal, except for in special circumstances. Contraception is widely available.Time: GMT/UTCElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Imperial and metricTourism: More than 4 million visitors annually When to Go  The weather is warmest in July and August and the daylight hours are long, but the crowds will be greatest, the costs the highest and accommodation harder to come by. In the quieter winter months, however, you may get miserable weather, the days are short and many tourist facilities will be shut. Visiting Ireland in June or September has a number of attractions: the weather can be better than at any other time of the year, it's less crowded and everything is open.     Events  Many diverse events and festivals take place around the country over the year. February sees the Dublin International Film Festival. St Patrick's Day, 17 March, is a public holiday. In Northern Ireland, Easter is the start of the Orange/Protestant marching season. June 16 is Bloomsday in Dublin, with re-enactments and readings throughout the city. Listowel in County Kerry holds a Writers' Week literary festival during June, and there's a Jazz & Blues Festival in Belfast. July is when marching really gets into its stride in Northern Ireland, and every Orangeman hits the streets on the Glorious 12th to celebrate the Protestant victory at the Battle of the Boyne.  August is horse-racing month, with the Dublin Horse Show and races in Tralee in County Kerry. In the same county, at Killorglin, the ancient Puck Fair heralds unrestricted drinking for days and nights. The first weekend in August is the date for Ireland's major annual rock festival, at Thurles in County Tipperary. In September Cork has its Film Festival and Belfast has a Folk Festival. In October, Dublin has its Theatre Festival, Ballinasloe in County Galway hosts the country's largest cattle and horse fair, and Kinsale in County Cork is home to Ireland's gourmet festival. In Wexford the November Opera Festival is an international event. Christmas is a quiet affair in the countryside, though on 26 December the ancient practice of Wren Boys is reenacted, when groups of children, traditional musicians and Irish dancers perform at area homes, asking donations in exchange for a year's worth of good luck.    
europe_ireland_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  In northern County Clare, the Burren region is an extraordinary place. Miles of polished limestone karst stretch in every direction, and settlements along the coast are few; they include the popular Irish music centre of Doolin and the attractive coastal village of Ballyvaughan. Underground caverns, cracks, springs and chasms are the major features of the Burren, which is ringed by caves. Flora includes a bizarre mix of Mediterranean, Arctic and Alpine plants, and the region is the last bastion of the rare pine marten. In Stone Age times, the Burren was covered in soil and trees and supported quite large numbers of people. At least 65 megalithic tombs remain from this time; however, the vegetation was destroyed in this early version of land clearing, resulting in today's eroded limestone mass. Iron Age stone forts (known as ring forts) dot the Burren in prodigious numbers, and castle ruins add a touch of medieval mystery. Unpaved, green roads crisscross the region, reaching the most remote places; they date back many thousands of years.  Buses run to the Burren area from Limerick, Galway City and Ennis. Services in summer are fairly regular, but in winter you'd do well to plan your journey carefully to avoid getting stuck in a timetabling black hole.  
europe_italy_activities.html:  Activities  If the museums, galleries and espresso are not enough to occupy your time in Italy, there are plenty of options for the active and adrenalin-seeking. The Italian Alps, in particular the Dolomites, offer well-marked trails and strategically placed refuges for the long-distance hiker. Be prepared, even in summer, for sudden changes in the weather. The Apennines also have good hiking trails, especially in the Parco Nazionale d'Abruzzo and the Sila Massif in Calabria. Other options include the challenging but well-marked trails in the Apuane Alps in Tuscany, and the spectacular hikes in the rugged eastern ranges of Sardinia, such as Gennargentu.  There are plenty of excellent ski resorts in the Italian Alps - particularly in the Dolomites, which have the most dramatic scenery. The five major resorts are Cortina d'Ampezzo in the Veneto; Madonna di Campiglio, San Martino di Castrozza and Canazei in Trentino; and Courmayeur in the Valle d'Aosta. The ski season generally extends from December to late March, though there is year-round skiing on Mt Blanc, the Matterhorn and in the Valle d'Aosta.  Windsurfing and sailing are extremely popular, and at most beach resorts it's possible to rent boats and equipment. Cycling is a great way to see the country. The only problem is that 75% of Italy is mountainous or hilly, so you will need some stamina and a good bike. Popular cycling areas include the hills of Tuscany, and the Valnerina in Umbria. The tortuous, winding road up the Passo Stelvio is for masochists only.  
europe_italy_attractions.html:  Attractions  There's no escaping it: Rome means history. There's layers of the stuff - Etruscan tombs, Republican meeting rooms, Imperial temples, early-Christian churches, medieval bell towers, Renaissance palaces and baroque basilicas. In this city a phenomenal concentration of history, legend and monuments coexists with an equally phenomenal concentration of people busily going about their everyday life. It's hard to say what you'll find most breathtaking about the eternal city, the arrogant opulence of the Vatican, the timelessness of the Forum, the top speed of a Fiat Bambino or the bill for your latte.  
europe_italy_environment.html:  Environment  Italy's instantly recognisable boot shape kicks its way into the Adriatic, Ionian, Ligurian and Tyrrhenian Seas - all of which form part of the Mediterranean Sea. From west to east, France, Switzerland, Austria and Slovenia form a rugby scrum to the north. The islands of Elba, Sardinia, Ischia, Capri, the Aeolians and Sicily lie offshore. Mountains feature prominently in Italy's topography, and bolster its landlocked borders all the way from Genoa in the west to Trieste in the east. Italy's backbone is formed by the Apennines, extending from Genoa right down to the soccer ball that bounces off the toe of Calabria: Sicily. The Po River Valley in the country's northeast forms the largest lowland area, and is heavily populated and industrialised as a result. Underground rambunctiousness is evident from the country's three active volcanoes - Stromboli in the Aeolian Islands, Vesuvius near Naples and Etna on Sicily - and the devastation wrought by earthquakes, especially fierce in 1908 and 1980. Beauty abounds in Italy but, unfortunately, so does pollution, particularly in the big cities and along the coast.  A couple of millennia of human occupation, coupled with the locals'love of hunting, has extinguished many animal species once endemic to Italy. You might spot a brown bear or a lynx if you're lucky, and the Alpine regions are still home to wolves, marmots, chamois and deer. Mouflon sheep and wild boars and cats can be found on Sardinia, while in the skies falcons, hawks and golden eagles dodge the hunters' birdshot.  Italy's climate varies from north to south and from lowland to mountain top. Winters are long and severe in the Alps, with snow falling as early as mid-September. The northern regions experience chilly winters and hot summers, while conditions become milder as you head south. The sirocco, the hot and humid African wind that affects regions south of Rome, produces at least a couple of stiflingly hot weeks in summer.  
europe_italy_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Italy, along with Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain, forms part of the border-free travel zone subject to the Schengen Agreement. EU passport holders can come and go as they please. Citizens of the USA, Australia, Canada, Japan and New Zealand are among those who may enter Italy as tourists without a visa and stay up to 90 days.Health risks: Rabies (only found in the Alpi), Leishmaniasis (in coastal regions) and Lyme DiseaseTime: GMT/UTC +1 (+2 in summer)Electricity: 220V (some 125V still found) 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Italy is at its best in spring (April-May) and autumn (October-November). During these seasons, the scenery is beautiful, the temperatures are pleasant and there are relatively few crowds. Try to avoid August, as this is the time that most Italians take their vacations, and many shops and businesses are closed as a result.  The ski season generally lasts from December to late March; sea swimming is best between June and September; and July and September are the best months for walking in the Alps. The further south you go, the longer you can linger into November and December without feeling the pinch of winter. Italy's multitude of festivals and traditional events may be a factor in planning your visit. Easter, in particular, is celebrated fervently, and every second town has a festive Saint's day.     Events  Religious, cultural and historical events pepper the Italian calendar. The pre-Easter Carnivale is closely associated with Venice; Holy Week Easter processions are especially flamboyant at Taranto, Chieti and Sicily; and Florence explodes a cart full of fireworks on Easter Sunday. Festivals honouring patron saints are also particularly colourful events; for example the Fiestas di San Nicola in Bari and San Gennaro in Naples, the Festival of Snakes in Abruzzo (May) and the Fiesta of Sant'Antonio in Padua (June). Events betraying more than a hint of history include the Race of the Candles and Palio of the Crossbow in Gubbio (May), the Sardinian Cavalcade (May), the Regata of the Four Ancient Maritime Republics (which rotates between Pisa, Venice, Amalfi and Genoa, and is held in June), Il Palio in Siena (July & August) and Venice's Historic Regatta (September).    
europe_italy_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The island of Sicily is a place of contrasts, from the crumbling grandeur of its capital, Palermo, to the Greek ruins at Syracuse, volatile Mt Etna and the Aeolian Islands. It's home to touristy Lipari, jet-set Panarea, rugged Vulcano and spectacularly spouting Stromboli. Squatting strategically in the Mediterranean, and its largest island, Sicily has attracted waves of invaders and colonisers, whose detritus includes Greek temples, Roman ruins, Norman churches and castles, and Arab and Byzantine domes. Sicilians remain strongly tied to the land, despite the summer heat, which can be utterly scorching. Luckily, the beaches are superb.  Other sights include the magnificent 12th-century cathedral at Monreale and the touristy but unmissable Taormina, with its Greek theatre, panoramic public gardens, palazzo, cathedral and beaches.  
europe_latvia_activities.html:  Activities  The Gauja valley is a winter sports centre, and has a bobsleigh run at Sigulda and a ski jump at Valmiera. Riga has an outdoor ice skating rink that opens when temperatures fall below -3 C (27 F).   Canoeing is very popular on the Gauja, Salaca and Abava rivers and in the Latgale lakes region. Gauja National Park can be visited on horse-riding excursions arranged in Sigulda. Private companies offer guided bird-watching trips from Baldone, about 20km (12mi) south of Riga.  
europe_latvia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Riga's not as pretty nor as architecturally interesting as Tallinn or Vilnius, the other two Baltic capitals, but it does have plenty of big-city bustle. You'll also notice an air of ethnic tension, fuelled by the fact that Russians outnumber native Latvians in the city.  Riga straddles the Daugava River, about 15km (9mi) from its mouth in the south-eastern corner of the Gulf of Riga. Centuries-old German buildings are strewn throughout the historic quarter of Vecriga (Old Riga), and taking the lift up to the spire of St Peter's Church for an aerial view of the neighbourhood is one of the highlights of a visit. Riga Castle dates from 1330, when it was built as the headquarters of the Livonian Order. It's now the home of Latvia's president.  East of Old Riga the city blossoms with 19th-century parks and wide boulevards. The Freedom Monument, erected in 1935, is the area's main landmark. Encompassing Old Riga, New Town dates from the 19th century and comprises a mixture of business and residential zones. Housed in several WWI zeppelin hangars south of Old Riga, the lively central market is the focus of the city's modern life and a fair barometer of its standard of living.  The WWII Riga ghetto was in the Maskavas suburb, home to Riga's only remaining synagogue and the city's Jewish Museum. Don't miss the Riga Motor Museum, 8km (5mi) east of Old Riga, which features cars that once belonged to Soviet luminaries Gorky, Stalin, Khrushchev and Brezhnev - complete with irreverent life-size figures of the men themselves  In summer, tables and chairs spill out onto Doma laukums (Dome Square), transforming it into a fun-packed plaza of cheap cafes, beer tents and late-night bars. You're spoilt for choice dining out in Riga, but if you long for a return to the good ol' days, there's a Soviet-style cafe in Old Riga with stale buns, plastic cups, drab walls and vodka at rock-bottom prices.  
europe_latvia_environment.html:  Environment  Latvia is the middle child of the Baltic family, both in geography and in area. It's larger than Estonia to the north and smaller than Lithuania to the south, while all three Baltic States are dwarfed by their eastern neighbours, Russia and Belarus. Latvia borders the Baltic Sea to the west and north-west. The Gulf of Riga, a thumb-shaped inlet of the Baltic Sea, pokes into Latvia's northern coast. The Vidzeme Upland in eastern Latvia boasts the country's highest point, Gaizina kalns, which rises to a dizzy 311m (1020ft).  About 40% of Latvia is forested, and elk, deer, wild boar, wolves, lynx and brown bears are prominent forest inhabitants. Beavers and otters live in the inland waterways and seals along the coast. Latvia is also home to 6500 pairs of white stork (six times as many as the whole of Western Europe). Latvia's sole national park, situated in the Gauja river valley east of Riga, has great scenery, walking trails, castles and a wildlife centre. There are a number of nature reserves, three of which are situated in the Kurzeme region in western Latvia.  From early November until the April thaw, temperatures rarely rise above 4 C (39 F) and the sun shines only a few hours a day. June to August daytime highs are normally in the 14-22 C (57-71 F) range. July and August are the warmest months but are prone to persistent showers.  
europe_latvia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Many nationalities require a visa, and a few require an invitation as well. Citizens of Andorra, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK and the USA can travel visa-free for stays of up to 90 days; citizens of many countries do not require a visa if they already have one for Estonia or LithuaniaHealth risks: Tick-borne encephalitis (get vaccinated if you intend to spend a lot of time in forested areas); do not drink unboiled tap waterTime:GMT/UTC plus 2 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Spring and summer (April through September) are far and away the choicest times of year to visit. These months see better weather, more daylight, fresher food and plenty of folk festivals cropping up nationwide. The weather during this period is suitable for most outdoor activities - as long as you don't mind the slushy and chilly weeks at either end. Winter weather (from November through late March) can be extreme in Latvia, but this period also sees the most theatre performances and concerts and is a skiers' dream. July and August is the peak tourist season, when hotels are often fully booked.     Events  The first national song festival in Latvia was held in 1873 and has evolved into one of the most emotive events on the calendar. It's held every five years and climaxes with a giant choir singing in a huge open-air amphitheatre in the national capital.  Big midsummer celebrations start on 23 June, when people flock to the countryside to celebrate amid the lakes and pine forests. Special beers, cheeses and pies are prepared and wreaths strung from grasses, while flowers and herbs are hung around the home to bring good luck and keep families safe from evil spirits.   Gadatirgus is a big arts and crafts fair held in Riga in the first weekend in June. The Baltika Annual International Folklore Festival, which has taken place in each Baltic capital in turn since 1987, is a weeklong affair of music, dance, exhibitions and parades usually held in mid-July. It's next due to be held in Riga in 2000.  Other music festivals include the International Festival of Organ Music, held in the capital in June; the Opera Music Festival, held in Sigulda in July; the Festival of Ancient Music, at Bauska Castle in July; and Liepajas Dzintars, a rock festival held in Liepaja in mid-August. Ascension Day, a big Roman Catholic gig, is celebrated between 14 and 16 August in Aglona.    
europe_latvia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The origins of the Crocodile Dundee story can be traced to this little village set among three lakes. The centrepiece of the village is a huge statue of a crocodile, given to Dundaga by the Latvian Consulate in Chicago in 1995. The statue honours Arvids von Blumenfelds, a local who fled to Australia during WWII and spent his days hunting crocodiles in the Outback. The film is said to be based on the exploits of this Dundaga hero.  Dundaga's castle is also steeped in legend, since a fair maiden who made the tragic mistake of intruding upon a gnomes' wedding is said to have been walled up here alive. Locals say she still haunts the castle, only appearing during a full moon. Dundaga lies north-east of Riga, 20km (12mi) inland from the Gulf of Riga coast, and is best reached by car.  
europe_leeds_activities.html:  Activities  Leeds draws people for its shopping and nightlife, as well as its proximity to the 638 sq mi (1,650 sq km) Yorkshire Dales, made famous by the books and television show All Creatures Great and Small. During the summer, the place is full of cyclists, walkers and - further to the west - Bront fans. In the winter, ice skating is a favourite activity at the Ice Cube, in the new Millennium Square. Cricket and football are the local spectator sports to get along to, and if you're in town long enough you might even be able to play a game.  
europe_leeds_attractions.html:  Attractions  Leeds' pride and joy is the purpose-built, castle-like building that houses the impressive Royal Armouries, on the banks of the Leeds-Liverpool Canal. The interior, painted a curiously unwarlike peach colour, includes four floors of exhibits from the Royal Armouries' national collection, centred on the themes of war, tournaments, self defence, hunting and the Orient. Interpreters and interactive exhibits fill in the historical background and help put life into these instruments of death. The displays are modern and effective, and deserve credit for demonstrating the realities of war.  There are numerous demonstrations throughout the day (pick up a schedule when you arrive), and outside from Easter to October you can see displays of jousting and falconry in the Tiltyard. Perhaps the biggest controversy about the Armouries is that it is in Leeds at all; when on display at the Tower of London, the exhibits attracted many more visitors. The Royal Armouries is about fifteen minutes walk southeast of town, and is best reached by foot or bus. Admission is free.  
europe_leeds_facts.html:  When to Go  While the winter months are cold and grey, the bars and clubs continue to operate, so you can always stay warm on the inside. For many, Leeds means Headingley, the test-level cricket ground and home to the Yorkshire County Cricket Club; summer is the time to see the cricketers in action. Summer also sees the most tourists in town; although many prefer to visit in April-June and September-October.     Events  If you want to get active, the Annual Otley 10 Mile Road Race, just north of Leeds, takes place in June. June is also the middle of the English cricket season, with Yorkshire games based around the beautiful Headingley ground. Just 10 minutes from town is Elland Road, home to the Leeds United Football Club. Games are played from August through to May. October sees the established Leeds International Film Festival, boasting over 400 films and film-related events. Kids' films get an airing at the Leeds Children & Young People's Film Festival in March.    
europe_leeds_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The centre of Bradford is just 9mi (6km) west of the centre of Leeds, and the outer edges merge so the two cities are effectively united on the ground - although not when it comes to football, or much else, come to that. Leeds sees Bradford as the poor relative, while Bradford thinks Leeds has pretensions above its station. They both could be right. For centuries, Bradford was the world capital of the wool trade. Following this industry's collapse, a large population of Pakistanis and Bangladeshis settled here and, despite occasional racial tensions, have helped reinvigorate the city and give it new energy. A high point of the year is a wonderful celebration of Asian music and dance called the Mela, part of the annual Bradford festival which is held every June.  The top sight for any visit to Bradford is the five-storey National Museum of Photography, Film & Television. It has a knockout collection of exhibits and features. Also well worth the time is the underrated Colour Museum, which explores the wool-dyeing trade, and the Bradford Industrial Museum.  
europe_liechtenstein_activities.html:  Activities  The mountains of Liechtenstein are fine for skiing and hiking. You could also turn your hands and legs to mountaineering and the more vigorous ski mountaineering.  
europe_liechtenstein_attractions.html:  Attractions  Little more than a village, Vaduz contains most of the points of interest in Liechtenstein. Two adjoining streets, Städtle and Äulestrasse, enclose the centre of town, and everything of any importance is within this small area. The State Art Collection (Staatliche Kunstsammlung) has good temporary exhibitions and includes parts of the art collection that the princes of Liechtenstein have acquired over the centuries. The Postage Stamp Museum contains more than 300 frames of stamps issued since 1912. For ski buffs there's even a Ski Museum, open only in the afternoons.  Although the castle is not open to the public, it is worth climbing up the hill for a closer look. There's a good view of Vaduz and the mountains, as well as a network of marked walking trails along the ridge. The National Museum (Landesmuseum) has coins, weapons, folklore exhibits and an informative slide show of the history of Liechtenstein.  There is a hostel in town as well as a few mid-priced hotels. Restaurants are expensive in Vaduz but there are some good choices - keep an eye out for lunchtime specials.  
europe_liechtenstein_environment.html:  Environment  Smaller than Belgium, smaller than most Caribbean Islands, smaller than almost anywhere, Liechtenstein is sandwiched between Switzerland to the west and Austria to the east. The 160 sq km (62.4 sq mi) principality has three distinct geographical areas; the Rhine Valley in the west, the edge of the Tirolean Alps in the south-east, and the northern lowlands. Around one fifth of the nation is still forested, and the rest is put to use grazing cattle and sheep or growing vegetables, grapes, wheat and potatoes.  Despite all the mountains, Liechtenstein enjoys a relatively mild climate, modified by a warm, southerly wind (known locally as the Föhn).  
europe_liechtenstein_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, South Africa, the UK and the USA do not require visas for visits of up to three months.Health risks: Altitude sickness, hypothermia & sunburnTime: GMT/UTC + 2 hoursElectricity: 220 volts, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  You can visit Liechtenstein any time of the year. Summer lasts roughly from June to September and offers the most pleasant climate for outdoor pursuits. Unfortunately, you won't be the only tourist during this period, so prices can be high. You'll find much better deals during the shoulder seasons of April-May or late-September-October.  If you're keen on winter sports, resorts in the Alps begin operating in late November, move into full swing around Christmas, and close down when the snow begins to melt in April.     Events  Look out for processions and fireworks on 15 August, Liechtenstein's national holiday.    
europe_liechtenstein_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Feldkirch is the gateway to Liechtenstein from the Austrian side of the border, and the town still retains some medieval buildings. There are good views from the 12th-century Schattenburg Castle, which houses a museum. There's also a free animal park about 1km (0.6mi) from the centre of town. Feldkirch hosts the important Schubertiade music festival in late June, and if you're there in winter it's worth having a crack at the ski slopes. You can reach Feldkirch by bus or train from Vaduz.  
europe_lisbon_activities.html:  Activities  When in Rome - well, when in a city that has Roman ruins - do as the locals do: Eat, drink and be merry. Soccer aside, exertion in the name of fitness doesn't rate all that highly among the food-and-wine-loving Lisbo tas. If you really must indulge your sporting side, you will find swimming, golf, tennis and even the pseudo 'sport' of ten-pin bowling available to you.  If you're keen to go swimming but can't make it out to the beach, most of the top hotels have their own pools, while the handiest swimming pool is the small rooftop Ateneu Comercial Complexo de Piscinas.  With six major golf courses in the area, those who wish to spoil a good walk are well catered for.  River cruises and guided walks are other activities that needn't necessarily prove too much of a cardiovascular strain.  
europe_lisbon_attractions.html:  Attractions  Portugal's caravels sailed off to conquer the great unknown from Belem, and today this leafy riverside precinct is a giant monument to the nation's Age of Discoveries. First stop should be the Mosteiro dos Jer nimos, a Manueline masterpiece whose intricate decoration and peaceful spaces will leave you inspired. A short walk away is the Torre de Belem, the much-photographed symbol of Portugal's maritime glory. The imposing limestone Monument to the Discoveries, also facing the river nearby, is shaped like a caravel and features key players from the era. When you've digested enough maritime history, head off to the famous Antiga Confeitaria de Belem for some delicious pasteis de Belem (traditional custard tarts). If you have time, look around the Centro Cultural de Belem, one of Lisbon's main cultural venues, which houses the Museo do Design, a collection of 20th-century mind-bogglers.  
europe_lisbon_facts.html:  When to Go  With a temperate climate, Lisbon is an all-season destination. Having said that, spring (late April to June) and early autumn (late September and October) offer the most pleasant weather. If you don't perform well in a crowd, avoid the peak tourist season, mid-June through August or September. In August many Lisbo tas take their holidays and things can be a bit quiet. On the other hand, you can snap up great bargains at the summer sales.     Events  Catholic Portugal celebrates festas (festivals), feiras (fairs) and romarias (religious pilgrimages) like they're going out of style. When you add in an almost-religious love of soccer and a vibrant arts calendar, Lisbon is abuzz almost all year round.   Carnaval - Mardi Gras with rosary beads - sees normally reserved Lisbo tas indulge in some revelry before they start fasting for Lent. Come May (and October) hundreds of thousands of pilgrims make their way to F tima to celebrate the apparitions of the Virgin Mary witnessed by three shepherd children in 1917. Hot on its heels is the June Festas dos Santos Populares (Festivals of the Popular Saints) - a riot of parades, music, dancing, fireworks, all-night partying and, of course, church services.  A celebration of Portugal's proud seafaring history, the Festival dos Oceanos (Oceans Festival) in August encompasses music, tours, food, regattas and parades. Wine lovers in town in November can have their thirsts sated at the Festival do Vinho.  Other highlights include the 18 concerts of the poetically rhyming Super Bock Super Rock festival in March, the Festival de Cinema Gay e Lesbico in late September and an international marathon every November. Fado aficionados should visit in February, when the Festival das M sicas e dos Portos (Harbour and Music Festival) showcases the country's melancholic folksinging tradition.  Along with the usual Christmas, New Year and Easter public holidays, Lisbon celebrates a range of other religious days: Carnaval Tuesday (the day before Ash Wednesday), Corpus Christi in May/June, Feast of the Assumption (15 August), All Saints' Day (1 November) and Feast of the Immaculate Conception (8 December). Historical and political holidays are Labour Day (1 May), Liberty Day (celebrating the 1974 Revolution of the Carnations) on 25 April, Portugal Day, or Cam es & the Communities Day (10 June), Republic Day (commemorating the declaration of the Portuguese Republic in 1910) on 5 October and Independence Day (commemorating the restoration of independence from Spain in 1640) on 1 December.    
europe_lisbon_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Queen of the attractions away from Lisbon is Sintra. This UNESCO World Heritage Site - a 45-minute train trip from Lisbon's Rossio station - is a fairytale destination. It even comes recommended by the estimable Lord Byron (who had few nice things to say about the rest of Portugal).  Top of the list is the Pal cio Nacional da Pena, a mad, Disney-style folly built by King Ferdinand in the 19th century. Escape the crowds and take the leisurely forest walk up to the palace from Sintra's Church of Santa Maria. Clamber around the overgrown ruins of the peaceful Castelo dos Mouros (Moorish castle) and enjoy panoramic views as you walk along its stone battlements to the palace. Once you've been dazed and confused by the bizarre Bavarian-Manueline confection of turrets, battlements and excessive decoration, rest your eyes in the enchanting Pena Park below, from where you can walk back into town. Once you've recovered, tackle the other palace, the Pal cio Nacional de Sintra, in the heart of the old town.  
europe_lithuania_activities.html:  Activities   Cross-country skiing, ice skating and toboganning are all popular winter sports; Aukstaitija National Park, in eastern Lithuania, has the best cross-country skiing trails. The national park is also a good canoeing area - trips can be organised and equipment rented from the park's tourism and recreation centre. The west coast of the country attracts large numbers of bird-watchers, especially to the town of Vente, on the eastern side of the Curonian Lagoon, which is home to an ornithological preserve.  The Fisherman's Club in Vilnius provides advice on all types of fishing and arranges fishing trips in Lithuania. In the depths of winter, ice fishing is popular on the frozen Curonian Lagoon. Skydiving and ballooning can be arranged in Vilnius. There are plenty of opportunities to rent bicycles and there are some fun (and mostly flat) cycling tours.  
europe_lithuania_attractions.html:  Attractions  Lithuania's capital city has an international flavour, partly due to the influence of the big Lithuanian diaspora and partly because it has always been exposed to influences from central Europe and beyond. In the 16th century, Vilnius was one of the biggest cities in eastern Europe; it played a part in Poland's 17th-century 'golden age' and became an important Jewish city in the 19th century. Germany, Poland and Russia have all played pass-the-parcel with Vilnius this century. Post-WWII, with the Poles and the Jews mostly gone, Vilnius developed into the chief focus of Lithuania's push for independence. Particularly dramatic and tragic events took place here in January 1991, when Soviet troops trying to destabilise the situation stormed the city's TV installations, killing 13 people and injuring many others.  Vilnius lies 250km (155mi) inland from the Baltic Sea on the banks of the Neris river. It's in the southeast of Lithuania, just a stone's throw from the Belarus border. The centre of the city is on the southern side of the river, and its heart is Cathedral Square, an open square with the cathedral on its northern side and Gediminas Hill rising behind it. The Old Town, the largest in eastern Europe, stretches south from Cathedral Square. A church spire can be seen from every one of its winding streets, which, coupled with its countless hidden courtyards, make it intriguing to explore. Other landmarks include Vilnius University, the President's palace, an observatory and the old Jewish quarter and ghetto. Restaurants, pubs, nightclubs and cafes abound. Three Crosses Hill overlooks the Old Town and is a long-standing landmark. Crosses are said to have stood here since the 17th century in memory of three monks who were martyred by crucifixion on this spot.  The New Town lies 2km (1mi) west of the Old Town and was mostly built in the 19th century. City hall is situated here, as is the Museum of the Genocide of the Lithuanian People, housed in the former Gestapo and KGB building. The guides here are all former inmates and will show you round the cells where they were tormented. South of the river there's a bronze bust memorial to American rock legend Frank Zappa. Vilnius' Soviet-era suburbs are north of the river. There are plenty of accommodation options in and around the Old Town; this is also the best place to nose out a good restaurant.  
europe_lithuania_environment.html:  Environment  Lithuania is the biggest of the three Baltic states and covers an area roughly the same size as Ireland. It borders Latvia in the north, Belarus in the south-east, the Baltic Sea in the west and Poland and the truncated Kaliningrad Region of Russia in the south-west. It's a predominantly flat country, and its highest point, Juazapines, measures only 294m (964ft). Lithuania's Baltic coast extends about 100km (62mi), half of which lies along the extraordinary Curonian Spit - a pencil-thin 98km (61mi) long sandbar that's up to 66m (216ft) high.  Just over one quarter of Lithuania is forested, in particular the south-west of the country. Elk, deer, wild boar, wolf and lynx inhabit the forests, though you're unlikely to bump into any without some guidance. Lithuania also has about 2000 otters, and Lake Zuvintas, in the south, is an important breeding ground and migration halt for waterbirds. There are five national parks in Lithuania and a number of nature reserves, the highlight being the Kursiu Nerija National Park, a special environment of high dunes, pine forests, beaches, a lagoon and seacoasts.  The Lithuanian climate is temperate. From May to September daytime highs vary from about 14 C to 22 C (57 F to 72 F), but between November and March it rarely gets above 4 C (39 F). July and August, the warmest months, are also wet, with days of persistent showers. May, June and September are more comfortable, while late June can be thundery. Slush under foot is something you have to cope with in autumn, when snow falls then melts, and in spring, when the winter snow thaws.  
europe_lithuania_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Lithuania requires visas from most nationalities except citizens of the Baltic states, Australia, Canada, Denmark, Ireland, Italy, Switzerland, the UK and the US.Health risks: NoneTime:GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: metricTourism:950,000 visitors a year When to Go  Summer and spring (May through September) are far and away the best times of year to travel in Lithuania. The majority of foreign tourists come during July and August, when low-budget hotels and hostels can be fully booked. While there's usually a picturesque sprinkling of snow on the ground in winter (November through March), there's also only a few hours of daylight each day.     Events  The most emotive cultural event is the National Song Festival, held every five years (the next one will be in Vilnius in 2000). Over 100,000 people are expected to join in with the singing of several hundred choirs from the Baltic region. Midsummer celebrations are keenly celebrated in these latitudes: the night of 23 June, considered to have magical powers, is the climax of events. The Baltika folk festival rotates among the Baltic capitals - it's due in Lithuania in July 1999.  Other popular cultural events include horse races on Lake Sartai in Dusetos, near Utena, on the first Saturday of February; St Casimir Day, Lithuania's patron saint's day, on 4 March; April's International Jazz Festival, which attracts top musicians from all over the world to Kaunas; and the Life Theatre Festival, a week-long theatre festival that features avant-garde productions in Vilnius in May. Also in Vilnius is a week-long Summer Music Festival of street theatre, dancing, masked parades and craft fairs in the Old Town in July; and Vilnius City Days, three days of musical and cultural events in theatres, concert halls and on the streets in mid-September. Velines (All Souls' Day) commemorates the dead with visits to cemeteries on 2 November.    
europe_lithuania_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Should you harbour an inexplicable urge to be the progenitor of generations of mutants, then a visit to the world's largest RMBK Chernobyl-style reactor plant may leave you with a warm inner (and outer) glow. The Visaginas town centre, 2km (1mi) west of the plant, features a Geiger counter that records daily radiation levels. The plant boasts two RMBK reactors, which are graphite cooled and have no containment system; if an accident occurs, radiation is immediately released into the open air. Visaginas is 120km (74mi) north-east of Vilnius. If you don't have private transport, trains connect Vilnius with the town of Ignalina, 50km (31mi) south of the plant, from where you can catch a local bus or taxi to Visaginas.  
europe_liverpool_activities.html:  Activities  Spectator sports come into their own in sports-mad Liverpool, and football is the obvious pastime of choice. Liverpool FC's ground is at Anfield, 3mi (5km) from Lime St, and if the game's full there's a museum and tour to compensate. Everton's home ground is 2mi (3km) from town at Goodison Park, and it too has tours. Tickets to games at either ground are hard to come by - turn up on the day and hope for the best! Liverpool's pub and club scene is still going strong, and for many the city's party-till-dawn nightlife is an activity in its own right. Of course, no trip to Liverpool is complete without taking a ferry ride across the you-know-what, or a Magical Mystery Strawberry Fields Penny Lane Beatles bus tour.  
europe_liverpool_attractions.html:  Attractions  Twenty years ago Albert Dock was one of the most derelict sites in the country, its warehouses rotting shells and the riverside setting miasmal. Nowadays the refurbished dock is Liverpool's pride and joy, and a heritage tourism success story. The dock's waterways are now navigable, and its five-storey warehouses are filled with bars, shops and impressive museums - a stunning symbol of the city's hopes for recovery. The redevelopers had some fine base material to work with, as Albert Dock constitutes the largest group of Grade 1-listed buildings in Britain.  The dock was constructed between 1841 and 1848, and was one of the earliest 'enclosed docks' in the world. Now the shipping and trading activity of the past is commemorated in the highly praised Merseyside Maritime Museum. Imaginative exhibits focus on emigration, the slave trade, WWII and shipbuilding. Closer to the waterfront, the Tate Liverpool houses the National Collection of Modern Art, and is the largest gallery of modern and contemporary art outside London. The museum devoted to the Beatles Story needs an overhaul, although the collection has recently been enhanced with the addition of John Lennon's famous Steinway upright (yes, the 'Imagine' piano), courtesy of purchaser George Michael, who outbid Robbie Williams and Noel and Liam Gallagher. On the opposite side of Canning Dock, the Museum of Liverpool Life takes a look at Merseyside entertainers (more Beatles), footballers, trades and TV shows.  The area north of Albert Dock is known as the Pier Head, named for a now-disappeared stone pier built in the 1760s. These days it's the departure point for Mersey ferries to Birkenhead rather than shiploads of emigrants heading off to New York. The Pier Head is dominated by a triumvirate of self-important buildings dating from the city's glory days: the Port of Liverpool Building, with its St Paul's-like dome (1907); the Italian palazzo-style Cunard Building (1916); and the iconic Royal Liver Building (pronounced 'lie-ver', not as in a liver and bacon fry-up), crowned by the famous copper liver birds (and we don't mean Nerys Hughes). The liver bird appears on the city's coat of arms, transformed over centuries of poor draftsmanship from an eagle carrying a fleur-de-lys to a cormorant with a beakful of seaweed.  
europe_liverpool_facts.html:  When to Go  In Liverpool, as in the rest of England, April-September is the prime time to be out and about, with pleasant average temperatures of 65 F (18 C); the shoulder months of March and October aren't too bad weatherwise either. Visitor numbers hit a peak in July-August, and no wonder when August is festival time - it seems every weekend has an event or three to celebrate. Winter (November-February) is as miserable here as in any other windswept port town, and those 40 F (4 C) temperatures are best avoided.     Events  On the first Saturday in April the nation's eyes and ears focus on Liverpool's famous Aintree racecourse, where the gruelling Grand National steeplechase has been run every year since 1839. In June the Mersey River Festival celebrates the city's maritime connections, with tall ships, marines and family fun. Liverpool dubs itself the Festival City, and August is definitely festival month. Events kick off with the Merseyside International Street Festival, and more street theatre than you can throw 10p at. The inevitable Beatle theme raises its moptop in late-August's Mathew St Festival - Britain's biggest annual city-centre music event - coinciding with International Beatle Week. The Creamfields Dance Festival, the UK's biggest and best dance party, also hits Liverpool in August. The River Mersey Fireworks Festival lights up the skyline on Guy Fawkes Night (5 November).  Most businesses close on New Year's Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, May Day Bank Holiday (the first Monday in May), Spring Bank Holiday (the last Monday in May), Summer Bank Holiday (the last Monday in August), Christmas Day and Boxing Day (26 December).    
europe_liverpool_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Port Sunlight is a Victorian chocolate-box village created by the philanthropic William Hesketh Lever to house his soap-factory workers in healthy, garden surrounds. The purpose-built village has an almost perfect collection of English vernacular, Arts & Crafts architecture (barring the odd satellite dish and high incidence of double-glazing). Other than wandering around the idyllic streets of mock-Tudor houses, gawping at the flower beds and remembering that people actually live here, the main attraction is the wonderful Lady Lever Art Gallery. Its prized collection of Pre-Raphaelite art vies with that of the nearby Walker Art Gallery, making Merseyside the mother lode of Pre-Raph art. There's also a pretty good range of Wedgwood pottery on view. The Heritage Centre tells the story behind Port Sunlight's creation. The village is a 20-minute train ride southeast of Liverpool, across the Mersey on the Wirral Peninsula.  
europe_london_activities.html:  Activities  If you feel like a paddle on the water, hire a boat for an hour or two and go boating on the Serpentine in Hyde Park. If faster water sports are your style, Docklands has jetskiing, waterskiing and windsurfing. London's parks - especially Hyde Park and Regents Park - are delightful for walking. There are also bike-hire joints all over the city for cyclists, although if you're planning to ride in traffic you might be taking your life in your hands. You can even hire a gee-gee and go horse riding if you're keen for a canter. Inline skaters should head to Hyde Park. And of course, London is littered with gyms, sports centres and even climbing walls. North of the centre, Highgate Ponds on Hampstead Heath offer open-air swimming all year round. Otherwise, take a dip in Ironmonger Row Baths or the Art Deco Porchester Spa.  
europe_london_attractions.html:  Attractions  It's the heart of visitors' London, beating with tour buses, cameras and flocks of persistent pigeons. On the square's northern edge is the cash-strapped National Gallery, which has one of the world's most impressive art collections. Famous paintings include Cezanne's The Bathers and van Eyck's Arnolfini Wedding. Entry to the gallery is free, which means if you feel like dropping in and looking at just one or two pictures, you can do so at your leisure without feeling obliged to cover extensive territory.  Also in the vicinity are the National Portrait Gallery, a place to see lots of faces from the Middle Ages to modern times, and St Martin in the Fields, with an adjoining craft market and a brass-rubbing centre in the crypt.  
europe_london_facts.html:  When to Go  London is a year-round tourist centre, with few of its attractions closing or significantly reducing their opening hours in winter. Your best chance of good weather is, of course, at the height of summer in July and August, but there's certainly no guarantee of sun even in those months - plus it's when you can expect the biggest crowds and highest prices.  April/May and September/October are good times to visit London: there's a better than average chance of good weather and the queues for popular attractions are hours shorter. During these periods the cost of getting to London is cheaper and you might even find some decent accommodation. If you don't mind braving the cold and shorter daylight hours, the cheapest fares and hotel prices are available from November to March.     Events  There are countless festivals and events in London. It all kicks off with the New Year's Day London Parade, in which the lord mayor of Westminster leads a parade of 10,000 musicians and street performers from Parliament Square to Berkeley Square. On Shrove Tuesday pancake races are held in Covent Garden, and in early April more serious racers take part in the London Marathon. London gets its colours on for the FA Cup Final in mid-May, and there's even more colour at the Chelsea Flower Show, held on the last week of May.  Continuing the theme, Trooping the Colour, the Queen's birthday parade, is held in June; Wimbledon runs for two weeks in the same month and London Pride, Europe's biggest gay and lesbian festival, also hits the streets. In July the world's biggest military tattoo, the Royal Tournament, is held in Earl's Court, and the raucous Notting Hill Carnival takes over the streets in August. Horsey folks can't resist late-September's Horseman's Sunday in Hyde Park, with more than 100 horses receiving the blessing from a vicar on horseback, followed by horse jumping in Kensington Gardens.  Things wind down as the weather gets colder, though there's plenty of bonfires on Guy Fawkes Night, on the 5th of November. The Lord Mayor's Show is held in late November, complete with floats, bands and fireworks. Trafalgar Square lights up in December with the Lighting of the Christmas Tree.   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day late March/April - Good Friday late March/April - Easter Monday first Monday in May - May Day Bank Holiday last Monday in May - Spring Bank Holiday last Monday in August - Summer Bank Holiday 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to LondonTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_london_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track   Hampstead Heath is one of the few places in London where you can actually forget that you're in the middle of an 800-sq-mi (1300-sq-km) city. There are woods, meadows, hills, bathing ponds and, most importantly of all, lots of space. After a brisk walk on the heath, pop into the Spaniard's Inn for a tipple or have a look at Robert Adam's beautiful Kenwood House and wander around its romantic grounds. You can lose the 20th century altogether in Church Row, Admiral's Walk and Flask Walk, which have intact Georgian cottages, terraces and houses.  
europe_luxembourg_activities.html:  Activities  With a nebulous network of marked walking paths and hiking trails, Luxembourg is both a hoofer's paradise and an escapist's hell. National routes are indicated by yellow signposts, while those marked by white triangles connect the hostels. Luckily, you need only to avoid the marked trails and turn your rambling toward the Ardennes region to get away from most of the madding crowd and find (some small amount of) blissful seclusion.  More pastime than passion for most Luxembourgers, bicycling is hardly the feverish lifestyle here that it is elsewhere on the continent. Still, bikes are available for rent in the larger towns and the capital.  
europe_luxembourg_attractions.html:  Attractions  Perched high on a promontory overlooking the Petrusse and Alzette Valleys, the Grand Duchy's capital solemnly sits like a thousand-year-old gargoyle. In 963 AD, on a rocky outcrop known as the Bock, Sigefroid, Count of Ardennes, laid the cornerstone of a fortress that would become Luxembourg City. Although Sigefroid's fortress no longer exists - after nine centuries of attacks and occupations, his castle and most of its fortifications were blown up by the townsfolk in the latter half of the 19th century - the views and what little remains of the original structure continue to inspire.  Of the fortress' remnants, the labyrinthine casemates are the most impressive to modern visitors. Built in 1644 while the fortress was under Spanish domination, the casemates are a honeycomb of damp chambers and connecting tunnels hewn from the belly of the Bock. Originally 23km (14mi) of subterranean defensive passageways, some as much as 40m (131ft) deep, the casemates were soon the envy of Europe's warmongers - so much so that they earned Luxembourg the nickname 'Gibraltar of the North'. The reputation proved persistent when during WWI and WWII the casemates were used as bomb shelters for 35,000 people. Today, the casemates are listed by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site, and 17km (11mi) of them are open to the public.  Winding down from the Bock, the pedestrian promenade known as the Chemin de la Corniche has been called 'Europe's most beautiful balcony'. At its southern base, the Citadelle du St Esprit provides superb panoramas of both the valleys and the Grund, or lower town, a picturesque, cobblestoned quarter that's home to the bulk of the city's meagre nightlife. Just west of the northern end of the Chemin is the Grand Ducal Palace.  The city is easily covered on foot. Most of the sights are along the southern rim of the old town, where strollers will also find scores of scenic lookouts and serene parks. Old town is based around two large pedestrian squares, Place d'Armes and Place Guillaume. The city's modern commercial center is across the Petrusse Valley to the south, connected by two bridges, Pont Adolphe and Pont Passerelle. The Petrusse and Alzette Rivers meet in the city centre.  
europe_luxembourg_environment.html:  Environment  In the northwest reaches of the heart of Europe, just southeast of Belgium and wedged between France and Germany, tiny Luxembourg is almost lost among the local big boys. Only 82km (51mi) long and 58km (36mi) wide, Luxembourg is slightly smaller than the US state of Rhode Island and not much larger than metropolitan London. Still, its borders encompass 2586 sq km (999 sq mi) of varied landscapes, from forested highlands in the north to rolling farmland and world-class vineyards in the south.  The capital, Luxembourg City, is centered in southern Luxembourg, 294km (183mi) east of Paris, 190km (118mi) southeast of Brussels and 176km (110mi) west of Frankfurt. Northeast of the capital, the Müllerthal region is Luxembourg's 'Little Switzerland', an area of predictable charm and renowned (if only nationally) recreational possibilities. Just east of the capital is Luxembourg's portion of the Moselle Valley, known for its vineyards. The northern third of the country - famous as part of the Ardennes plateau, the scene of the 1944-45 Battle of the Bulge - is called the Eisleck or Oesling and is composed mainly of densely forested highlands, peppered with medieval castles like Esch-sur-S re and Bourscheid. The southern two thirds of the nation - known collectively as Gutland, or the 'Good Country' - is dedicated mostly to farming and viticulture and is covered in rolling hills and patches of forest. At its southernmost end, a narrow swath of red soil belies the country's once vast iron ore deposits and aging steel industry in what's known as the Minette, or the 'Land of the Red Earth'.  The highest point in the country is in the Eisleck region, but at 555m (1823ft) it's nothing to plan your trip around. Nearer to the capital, the hills average around 270m (900ft). The four most important rivers are the Alzette, the Moselle, the Our and the S re, but there are many lesser streams and channels too. The Moselle was canalised in 1964 and links the Grand Duchy to larger European waterways.  In a country this small, it's no wonder the climate doesn't vary much from one end to the other. The surprise is that it doesn't vary much between seasons either. Luxembourg enjoys mild temperatures most of the year, with warm summers and cool winters, slipping down to the low chillies only between November and February and very rarely dipping below freezing. The sunniest period is from May to August, when temperatures average around 20 C (68 F) during the day and 10 C (50 F) at night. April and September tend to be sunny as well. The Ardennes often have snow all winter, when the sun shines only a few hours per day. Rainfall is spread out pretty evenly throughout the year, averaging one good showering every three days.  
europe_luxembourg_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of many countries - including Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the USA and virtually all of Western Europe - require only a passport to enter Luxembourg for stays of up to 3 months.Health risks: noneTime:GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Springtime, the choicest time of year to visit, brings a riot of wildflowers and ushers in celebrations and folk festivals nationwide. The weather from spring through fall is usually good for outdoors activities - so long as you don't mind rain. Winter is not as extreme in Luxembourg as it can be in nearby countries, so if you find yourself visiting during the colder months, you needn't weigh yourself down with polar gear.     Events  For a small country, Luxembourg is big on festivals. The liveliest national events are Carnival, held six weeks before Easter; Bürgsonndeg (Bonfire Day), the following week; and National Day, on 23 June, which is celebrated with parties and revelry akin to those on New Year's Eve, particularly in Luxembourg City. Also in the capital and definitely worth catching are Octave, a Catholic festival held from late April to early May that climaxes with a street parade headed up by the royal family; and Schueberfouer, a fortnight's worth of fair-type fun held in late August that features a cavalcade of decorated sheep joining in the streetside revelry.  East of the capital, the Müllerthal town of Echternach celebrates Whitsunday (the 7th Sunday after Easter) with a handkerchief pageant in honor of St Willibrord, a local boy made good, whose remains you can visit in the town's basilica. That same weekend, up in Ardennes, the town of Wiltz celebrates its yearly Broom Flower festival with parades and colourful floats. The Moselle Valley's wine festivals begin in August and run through November's 'New Wine' celebration in Wormeldange.    
europe_luxembourg_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  There's not much to keep you in central Luxembourg, but the National Military Museum in Diekirch is almost worth the trip in itself. The museum's exhibits detail the events of the 1944-45 Battle of the Bulge and the liberation of Luxembourg from the Nazi scourge by US troops. It's open everyday from Easter through October.  If your taste for machismo is more slings and arrows than tanks and cannons, try the nearby Bourscheid Castle, a thousand-year-old relic sitting on a plateau overlooking farmland and the S re River. The castle is open to invaders from April to October, weekends only the rest of the year.  Diekirch is reached by car, bus or train in under 40 minutes from Luxembourg City. The castle is a short but windy drive northwest of Diekirch.  
europe_macedonia_activities.html:  Activities  Macedonia's top ski resort is Popova sapka, 1845m (6050ft) high on the southern slopes of Sar Planina west of Tetovo. Hiking in any of the three national parks - Pelister, Galicica and Mavrovo - is a good way to get to know the countryside.  
europe_macedonia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Macedonia's capital, Skopje, is strategically set on the Vardar River at a crossroads of Balkan routes almost exactly midway between Tirana and Sofia, capitals of neighbouring Albania and Bulgaria. Thessaloniki, Greece, is 260km (160mi) south-east, near the point where the Vardar flows into the Aegean. The Romans recognised the location's importance long ago when they made the city (which they called Scupi) the centre of Dardania Province. Later conquerors included the Slavs, Byzantines, Bulgarians, Normans and Serbs, until the Turks arrived in 1392 and managed to hold onto Skopje until 1912.  After a devastating earthquake in 1963 killed 1066 people, aid poured in from the rest of Yugoslavia to create the modern urban landscape seen there today. It's evident that the planners got carried away by the money being thrown their way, erecting oversized, irrelevant structures which are now crumbling because of lack of maintenance. The post office building and telecommunications complex next to it are particularly glaring examples of architectural overkill.  Most of central Skopje is a pedestrian zone, with the 15th-century Turkish stone bridge over the Vardar River linking the old and new towns. North from the bridge are the Daud Pasha Baths, dating back to 1466, once the largest Turkish baths in the Balkans. The City Art Gallery now occupies its six domed rooms. North again is the old market area and the tiny Church of Sveti Spas with a finely carved iconostasis done in 1824. It's half buried because when it was constructed in the 17th century no church was allowed to be higher than a mosque.  Also near the old market area, the Museum of Macedonia has a large collection that covers the history of the region. The museum is housed in the modern white building behind the Kursumli Han, a caravanserai, or inn used by traders during the Turkish period. Skopje's old Oriental bazaar district is the largest and most colourful of its kind left in Europe.  
europe_macedonia_environment.html:  Environment  Much of Macedonia is a plateau between 600m and 900m (1970ft and 2950ft) high. The Vardar River cuts across the middle of the country, passing the capital, Skopje, on its way to the Aegean Sea near Thessaloniki, Greece. Lakes Ohrid and Prespa in the south-west drain into the Adriatic via Albania. These lakes are among the largest on the Balkan Peninsula, and Lake Ohrid is the deepest. In the north-west, the Sar Planina marks Macedonia's border with Kosovo; Titov vrh (2750m/9010ft) in this range is Macedonia's highest peak. The country's three national parks are Pelister (west of Bitola), Galicica (between Lakes Ohrid and Prespa) and Mavrovo (between Ohrid and Tetovo).  Macedonia's summers are hot and dry. In winter, warm Aegean winds blowing up the Vardar Valley moderate the continental conditions prevailing farther north. However, Macedonia receives a lot of snowfall between November and February, even if temperatures are warmer than those farther north.  
europe_macedonia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: British and Yugoslav passport-holders require no visa. Canadians, Americans and Australians need a visa, but it's issued free of charge at the border.Health risks: Sunburn, shelling in the border regions.Time: GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  There's no bad time to go to Macedonia weather-wise, as the country benefits from being close to the Aegean, which keeps it relatively warm in winter and very nice in summer. July and August are the best months to catch festivals: the Balkan Festival of Folk Dances and Songs is held in Ohrid in early July, while the Ohrid Summer Festival takes place later that same month.     Events  Macedonians celebrate Orthodox Christmas on 7 January, followed by the Old New Year on 13 January. Otherwise, a lot of the nation's special events center around military milestones: Ilinden or Day of the 1903 Rebellion is 2 August; Republic Day is 8 September; and 1941 Partisan Day is 11 October. The Balkan Festival of Folk Dances and Songs, held in Ohrid in early July, draws folkloric groups from around the Balkans. The Ohrid Summer Festival, held from mid-July to mid-August, features classical concerts. Poets gather in Struga at the end of August for an International Festival of Poetry.    
europe_macedonia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Bitola, the southernmost city of former Yugoslavia and second largest in Macedonia, sits on a 660m (2165ft) plateau between mountains just barely north of the Greek border. The old bazaar area is colourful, but the facilities at Bitola are poor. Hotels are overpriced and the city is useless as a transit point to or from Greece, as there's no bus or train to the border. Bus services to Ohrid and Skopje, on the other hand, are good. But go to see the Ruins of Heraclea. Founded in the 4th century BC by Philip II of Macedonia, Heraclea was conquered by the Romans two centuries later and became an important stage on the Via Egnatia. From the 4th to 6th centuries AD it was an episcopal seat. Excavations continue, but the Roman baths, portico and theatre can now be seen.  
europe_madrid_activities.html:  Activities  Madrid is synonymous with art galleries, bullfights, bar culture and alfresco dining. Still, you can get physical if you really want to - if you can find some time between hangovers. The city has various outdoor swimming pools, which open from June to September, and there are indoor pools for the rest of the year. In July and August a couple of big aquaparks open outside Madrid, too. The most extensive tennis courts are on the northern side of the lake in the Casa de Campo. You can play golf at various places, but Golf Park is conveniently open to all. Football is of, course, the favoured spectator sport.  
europe_madrid_attractions.html:  Attractions  Few visitors to Madrid would want to miss out on a visit to one of the art world's holy grails. Lovers of Spanish art will particularly enjoy the coverage given to the big three - Vel zquez, Goya and El Greco. Minor Spanish artists such as de Ribera and Murillo are also represented, along with a fair sprinkling of Flemish and Italian masters. Of course, with a museum this size you really should visit more than once, particularly as fewer than half of the collection is ever on view at any given time.  Don't miss Madrid's other two art fests, the Thyssen-Bornemisza and Reina Sof a collections, representing (respectively) European and modern Spanish movements. The Reina Sof a collection is dominated by Picasso's masterly Guernica.  
europe_madrid_facts.html:  When to Go  As in much of Spain, spring (March-May) and October are the best times to be in Madrid. The weather is generally agreeable, the city has a fresh feel to it and it isn't too overrun with tourists. If you love to party, visit during May for Madrid's biggest fiesta. You might like to book ahead though, it's a tough month for tracking down accommodation. From late June until the first weeks of September, the summer heat can be appalling, averaging above 30 C (85 F). The winter months are bitter, with temperatures averaging 2-11 C (36-52 F), though February occasionally produces crisp blue days and temperatures around 17 C (60 F).     Events  Madrid celebrates 14 official holidays a year, including all the major Catholic festivals as well as New Year's Day (1 January), Labour Day (1 May) and Spanish National Day (12 October). The city goes particularly crazy during carnivale (February/March), the Fiesta de la Comunidad de Madrid (2 May) and Fiestas de San Isidro (15 May). There's localised mayhem in June-July when the city's districts celebrate their various saints' days. Offices, banks and some shops close on public holidays, and they often also close on the intervening day if the holiday falls close to a weekend. Madrid is just about evacuated in August, as the locals head off on their holidays, and you may find that some restaurants and shops will be closed for the month.  OK, a picture of Madrid wouldn't be complete without mention of the city's bullfights. Those with the machismo of Hemingway and the sensibilities of Sid Vicious can taste the blood and sand at the Plaza de Toros Monumental de Las Ventas, Madrid's most stylish and important bullfighting ring. The season kicks off in February, and there are small local corridas throughout summer and spring. The main event on the bullfighting calendar is the mid-May feria, the four weeks of bloodletting that are part of the festival of San Isidro.    
europe_madrid_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Just 15km (9mi) north of Madrid is the nearest of several regal escape hatches. This particular palace ended up as Franco's favoured residence, and was also enjoyed by Felipe II in the 1550s. Several hundred tapestries are displayed, some based on cartoons by Goya. In the grounds is an elaborate 'cottage', built for Carlos IV in 1786. Bus No 601 leaves for the palace every 15 minutes from Plaza de la Moncloa in Madrid.  
europe_mallorca_activities.html:  Activities  The most popular activities on the island are probably partying, drinking and generally having a good time. However if you're after something a bit healthier, the hiking on Mallorca is great, particularly in the mountainous northwest; spring is the best time, as summer can be a bit hot and dry. The less hilly areas are better for cycling (unless you like peddling up mountains), and there are plenty of places on the island where you can hire bikes. If you like your activities wet (and not hangover-inducing), most beach resorts offer a choice of watersports, and hire out sailboards, catamarans, kayaks and pedalos. You can also take scuba-diving lessons and hire equipment on the island. For those who prefer slides to snorkels there's a selection of noisy water parks: don't forget your sun-tan lotion.  
europe_mallorca_attractions.html:  Attractions  Around half of Mallorca's population live in the capital, Palma, and it's a buzzing, vibrant place. After dark, its famous nightlife rivals other Spanish cities. By day, you can explore the attractive old quarter, crammed with cobbled lanes, tree-lined boulevards, Gothic churches and designer boutiques. You're unlikely to be alone; the city is usually packed with tourists, and you'll pass tacky souvenir shops on every corner. If you fancy hitting a nearby beach, your choice is limited to tourist developments a bus-ride away.  You can't miss the imposing Gothic cathedral, built between 1230 and 1600. Visitors can wonder at Gaudi's curious wrought-iron sculpture hanging from the ceiling and check out the adjacent museum of shiny religious artefacts. In front of the cathedral stands the Palau de l'Almudaina, an Islamic castle that became a Mallorcan royal residence. The winding streets of the surrounding historic quarter are home to the Museu de Mallorca, a converted 15th-century palace containing archaeological finds, antiques and paintings of local dignitaries. The Banyas Arabas (Arab Baths) are also in this area. Opposite the waterfront is Gothic masterpiece La Llotja, which contains an art museum. Just west of the city centre is the impressive Bellver Castle.  When you're looking for a hotel, don't be tempted by the waterfront tourist places west of the centre - they are a long way from anywhere. Central Palma is at the heart of the action and the best place to aim for. If you're looking to party, the happening old quarter has more bars and pubs - from flashy tourist haunts to stylish bodegas - than you can shake a pint at.  
europe_mallorca_environment.html:  Environment  The Balearic Islands sit in the Mediterranean sea just off the northeast coast of mainland Spain; floating in between Menorca and Ibiza, Mallorca is the largest. The capital, Palma de Mallorca, is surrounded by rocky inlets and harbours on the southern side, while most of the high-rise tourist resorts line the east coast. Sa Dragonera is the large, uninhabited island off the island's westernmost point. The northwest is defined by the dramatic Serra de Tramuntana mountain range and Mallorca's highest peak, Puig Major (1445m/4740ft). The northeast coast is made up of two sweeping bays: the Badia de Pollen a and the larger Badia d'Alc dia. The fertile plain known as Es Pla makes up a large part of inland Mallorca.  Mallorca's flora and fauna is rich. Trees such as the Aleppo pine, the evergreen holm oak and the carob tree are common, while the dwarf palm mainly grows around Pollen a, Alc dia and Andratx. Attractive orange and lemon orchards grow around S ller. The tree heather and wild flowers (hyacinths, violets, gladioli, etc) are also stunning. Reptiles (snake and gecko), mountain goats, wild sheep, rabbits and toads are all residents on the island. Birds of prey, including ospreys, kestrels and the rare black vulture, inhabit the mountainous northwest, and migratory birds flock to the marshes in summer. The Parc Natural de l'Albufera and Cabrera Island are both protected areas.  The Mediterranean climate of the Balearics keeps Mallorca's winter comfortably mild (around 15 C/59 F). Summer temperatures of around 27 C (85 F) are perfect for swimming (the water is also warm) and other outdoor activities.  
europe_mallorca_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US, Canadian, Australian, New Zealand and Israeli citizens can enter Spain without a visa and stay up to 90 days. EU passport holders can come and go as they please.Time: GMT/UTC + one hour (+ two hours in summer)Electricity: 220 volts, 50 Hz AC When to Go  The island boasts 300-out-of-365 days of sunshine, but Mallorca's peak season is summer (June, July and August). At this time the resorts are packed, beaches are bursting and accommodation and restaurant prices are upped. You will get the best weather though, with sunny tan-friendly temperatures and a pleasantly bath-tub-like sea.  In May-June and September-October prices are lower, the island is less busy and the weather is still pleasant. Even in winter (December, January and February) the sun sometimes makes an appearance, but be warned - many businesses shut between November and April.     Events  The first big bash of the year is January's festival of San Sebasti n, the patron saint of Palma. San Antonio Abad, the patron saint of animals, is also celebrated in January, with pet processions and animal blessing ceremonies. The weekend before Lent, Sa Rua, is carnival time characterised by people wearing fancy dress and dancing on coloured floats. Semana Santa, holy week, is an even bigger do: Palma holds processions every day and the smaller towns have festivities too. In July the party moves to Valldemossa, where the Carro Triunfal commemorates Santa Catalina Tomas, the patron saint of Mallorca. Also in July, battles from the 1229 Christian invasion are re-enacted in Pollen a. Harvest festivals are observed all over the island in September/October.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 6 January - Epiphany 19 March - St Joseph's Day 1 May - Labour Day 24 June - St John's Day 29 June - St Peter & St Paul's day 25 July - St James's Day15 August - Assumption of the Virgin 12 October - America Day 1 November - All Saints' Day 6 December - Constitution Day 8 December - Immaculate Conception 25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to MallorcaTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_mallorca_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If you're after the island's famous pearls, Mallorca's second largest town is the place to come. This industrial city has been cultivating pearls since 1890, and numerous shops here flog the little gems. The best place to get them is the factory on the outskirts of town, where you can take a tour of the manufacturing process before you buy. Don't come looking for a bargain though; artificial pearls, such as those cultivated in Manacor, look very like (and last longer than) the real thing so they can be quite expensive. After your shopping you can refuel with a taste of the local speciality, sobrasada, a spicy sausage. There's not much to see in the town itself (which is pretty unattractive) except the church, Esglesia dels Delors de Nostra Senyora, built on the site of the former mosque.  Manacor is on the C715 road, just inland from Porto Cristo.  
europe_malta_activities.html:  Activities  With 30m (98ft) of visibility, warm water and dramatic undersea vistas, Malta has great diving. Gozo has the best spots, including the waters off the northeast coast near Marsalforn. St George's Bay, on the southeast coast, is another good place for a plunge. Comino also has good dive spots, including a 40m (120ft) drop-off at Ras I-Irieqa on the southwest tip of the island.  Despite its rocky coastline, Malta has some good beaches. Gnejna and Golden Bays, on the northwest coast, and St George's Bay have warm, calm waters and good sandy strands. Ramla Bay has Gozo's best beach.  All the islands in the archipelago are excellent for walking. Gozo and Comino are small enough to be covered by foot in a day or less, and nothing is really very far from anything else on Malta.  
europe_malta_attractions.html:  Attractions  If you've ever wondered what sort of prize you'd get for saving Europe, look no further than Valletta. Named after the knight who masterminded Malta's successful stand against the Turkish siege of 1565, Valletta became the city of the Knights of the Order of St John and the seat of Malta's government. While travelling through the Mediterranean, Sir Walter Scott described Valletta as 'the city built by gentlemen for gentlemen'. Today it's a beautifully preserved 16th-century walled city, small enough to cover in a few hours without sweating too much in the Mediterranean sun. In fact, the streets were carefully laid out to channel cool breezes in from the harbour.  Valletta is a rough rectangle at the tip of a peninsula on Malta's northeast coast, just a few hundred metres across in either direction and surrounded by water on its northern, eastern and southern sides. From the City Gate at the southwest edge of Valletta, you can walk to the centre of town through a series of squares surrounded by palaces and cathedrals. One of the grandest is the Auberge de Castille, once the palace of the Spanish and Portuguese langue (a division of the Order of St John). It's now the office of the prime minister and not open to the public.  Among Valletta's many fine gardens are the Upper Barrakka Gardens, originally the private gardens of the Italian Knights of St John, where you can get a magnificent view of Grand Harbour and the Cottonera. St John's Co-Cathedral and Museum presents an austere facade, but the interior is a baroque masterpiece, with a patchwork of marble tombstones set in the floor commemorating the knights of old. The museum houses a collection of outstanding Flemish tapestries and two paintings by the Italian master Caravaggio.  The city's other major museum, the Palace of the Grand Masters, is also the seat of the president and parliament. It's loaded with tapestries, frescoes and friezes commemorating the Great Siege. Fort St Elmo, at the northeast tip of the city, features guides dressed as knights and re-stagings of historic battles.  
europe_malta_environment.html:  Environment  The Maltese archipelago consists of three islands lying in the middle of the Mediterranean, 93km (57mi) south of Sicily and 350km (217mi) north of Libya. Malta, the largest, is shaped like a bottle of port, and is indented by many bays and harbours. Aside from a few low ridges and outcrops, Malta is pretty flat and composed mainly of limestone. Gozo is greener and hillier than Malta, and its coast has high rugged cliffs.  The islands' soil is generally thin and rocky, yielding very little flora. The main exception is Buskett Gardens, a lush valley of trees and orange groves protected by the imposing Dingli Cliffs on the southwestern coast of Malta.  Malta has an excellent climate, reaching up to 30 C (86 F) in midsummer (July to August) and when the hot sirocco winds blow in from Africa. The lowest average daily high temperature, about 15 C (59 F), occurs during January. Rainfall is heaviest from November to February, though it's low year-round.  
europe_malta_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are not required for holiday visits of up to three months by Americans, Australians, Britons, Canadians, Japanese, Libyans, Moroccans, New Zealanders, South Africans, Tunisians or nationals of most EU countries.Health risks: NoneTime: GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity: 250V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit Malta is the lull from February to June, between the rainy season (such as it is) and the hot Mediterranean summer. This is also when room rates drop by as much as 40% from their late June to August high. September and October are also good months to visit.     Events  The Feast of St Paul's Shipwreck, on 10 February, commemorates the mishap that brought the apostle to Malta in 60 AD. During the third week of February, pretty floats and creepy masks mark Carnival, when dancing competitions and other festivities take place in the capital and Floriana. This predominantly Roman Catholic country gets into Holy Week in a big way. During the Good Friday pageant, Christ's passion and crucifixion are depicted by statues born aloft through the streets of Valletta and a dozen other towns. You can also see Last Supper Table Displays in the capital and in the outlying villages, including one in Zebbug made entirely of pasta.  The Feast of St Publius in Floriana kicks off the festa (feast) season on the first Sunday after Easter; over the next six months every village honours its patron saint. Satisfy your fried rabbit habit during Mnarja - the Feast of Sts Peter & Paul - held on 28 and 29 June. The festivities include traditional Maltese folk singing, horse racing and lots of crispy bunny. During the Christmas season, streets all over the islands are festooned with lights, statues of Baby Jesus look out from the windows of homes and shops, and bands march through Valletta every evening. On Christmas Eve (24 December), boys parade through towns and villages with statues of the infant Saviour, and a child tells the story of Christ's birth during Midnight Mass.    
europe_malta_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Malta's 'three cities' - Vittoriosa, Senglea and Cospicua - form the Cottonera. The name comes from the 17th-century fortifications that protect the area, which has been a shipbuilding centre since the Middle Ages. The Cottonera is just outside of the tourist mainstream on Malta, offering a glimpse into the island's daily working life. The Maritime Museum has exhibits on Malta's naval history. Those with a taste for the macabre can visit the misnamed Folk Museum, housed in the Inquisitor's Palace in Vittoriosa. The museum has displays of Inquisitors' instruments, and you can take a peek at the Hall of Judgement and the dungeon. A few kilometres to the southwest is the Hypogeum, located in the suburb of Paola. The Hypogeum consists of a 4400-year-old underground network of caves, tunnels and rooms, all carved out of rock with flint tools.  
europe_manchester_activities.html:  Activities  Think Manchester and thoughts immediately turn to entertainment of the night-time variety: pubs, bars, clubs, theatre and live music, including performances by the city's acclaimed Halle Orchestra. If it's daytime, then it's Old Trafford and football or cricket. For a combination of fresh air, exercise and travel, how about boating the region's canalways - what better way to arrive in the city? Serious walking enthusiasts might like to head out to the nearby-ish Peak District National Park.  
europe_manchester_attractions.html:  Attractions  Albert Square is smack bang in the city's heart, cushioned between Deansgate and Mosley St and named for its memorial to Victoria's beloved husband. The square is dominated by the sensationally Victorian Gothic town hall, designed by Alfred Waterhouse, the architect responsible for London's equally neo-Gothic Natural History Museum. St Peter's Square is just to the south, with its circular library and, marking the spot of the Peterloo massacre in 1819, the Free Trade Hall (recently sold off as a hotel). The city's former central railway station looms further south, now transformed into the G-Mex Exhibition & Event Centre and overlooked by the postmod angularity of the Bridgewater Hall, home to the city's famed Halle Orchestra.  To the west, Deansgate features the gorgeously Vic-Gothic John Rylands Library, built on cotton wealth to the glory of a famous local manufacturer. The library's collection of early printed books includes a Gutenberg Bible, several Caxtons and manuscripts dating from 2000 BC. The Pumphouse People's History Museum, another cultural institution of note, borders the River Irwell further west, and focuses on social history and the Labour movement.  
europe_manchester_facts.html:  When to Go  April-September is the optimal period weather-wise to head up north, though bear in mind that July-August is peak tourist time. Visit at the end of August and you can join the 500,000 revellers kicking up their heels in Manchester's GayFest parade. The marginal months of March and October are worth considering; it can be cold and wet, but then again so can July. November-February is grim, cold and dark, and best left to its own devices.     Events  Manchester's major festivities focus on the city's large gay and lesbian community. Britain's biggest queer arts fest, the biennial It's Queer Up North (IQUP), hits town around late August. And every year's a good one to join in the annual GayFest shenanigans, with a parade held on the August bank holiday weekend. The family-oriented Manchester Show is held in July, with a day-long programme of music, dance and entertainment.  Most businesses close on public holidays such as New Year's Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, May Day Bank Holiday (the first Monday in May), Spring Bank Holiday (the last Monday in May), Summer Bank Holiday (the last Monday in August), Christmas Day and Boxing Day (26 December).    
europe_manchester_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Lovers of orchestrated history can step into the industrial past by travelling 10mi (16km) south of Manchester to Wilmslow's 18th-century cotton mill, nestled in the bucolic Styal Country Estate. Quarry Bank is a virtually intact example of an early factory complex, featuring steam engines and a fully functional iron waterwheel. Cloth is still produced at the mill, giving visitors a first-hand look at how the generated power is harnessed to drive the cotton mill machinery. Costumed guides at the nearby Apprentice House shed light on the depressing lives of the mill's young workers, orphaned youngsters who were shipped in from the nation's workhouses. The mill is surrounded by the fields, houses and chapels of Styal village, and there's plenty to muse upon while taking a walk around the evocative site. A free bus heads out to Styal from Manchester airport, or you can catch a train and walk for half a mile to the mill.  
europe_milan_activities.html:  Activities  There are plenty of ways to keep fit in Milan. As befits a city so obsessed with working hard, there are numerous gyms where you can arrange a short-term membership and work out to your heart's content. Bicycling is another popular pastime; just be careful, as the Milanese tend to drive the same way they live, at full throttle.  If you get out of the city, there are opportunities for action no matter what the season. When it's warm, escape to one of the many Alpine lakes for boating, water skiing or swimming. As soon as the snow starts to fall, head to the mountains for plenty of world-class skiing and snowboarding.  
europe_milan_attractions.html:  Attractions  Milano's navel, Piazza del Duomo, has the atmosphere of London's Piccadilly Circus and much more interesting architecture. The cathedral was commissioned in 1386 and is the world's fourth-largest church. The late-Gothic wonder features a forest of spires and statuary, marble pinnacles and pillars, all woven together with a web of flying buttresses. A gilded copper statue of the Madonna rises above the myriad vertices, distracting awed observers from the church's most interesting omission: The duomo has no bell tower.  The duomo's finest relic is a nail purportedly used to pin Jesus to a cross all those years ago. Every September, the Archbishop of Milan retrieves the sacred bit of metal from its perch high above the nave and presents it to an adoring (or at least curious) congregation.  The neighboring Museo del Duomo chronicles the church's six centuries and displays an interesting collection of art and artifacts.  
europe_milan_facts.html:  When to Go  Though Italy has a predominantly Mediterranean climate, Milan's winters (December - February) qualify as brisk, with lows below freezing. The mountains shield the city from the worst of the Northern European winter, however.  Summer (May-Sept) can be hot and muggy. In August, most of the city heads to the beaches to escape the 30 C-plus (86 F-plus) heat; you'd do well to follow suit.     Events  Milan likes to celebrate both the spiritual and material worlds with equal gusto. Among the highlights of the former is the annual Festa della Nivola (Festival of the Nail), which takes place September 15-18 at the duomo (cathedral). The archbishop of Milan takes to the air in his own private deus ex machina to recover a nail, stored near the cathedral ceiling, that was purportedly hammered into Jesus a couple of millennia ago. Carnivale which livens up Milan the week before Ash Wednesday, is a combination of Christian reverence and secular revelry.  If you feel the need for speed, Milan has the raceway for you: The Monza Autodrome, 31km (15 miles) northeast of the city, hosts the Italian Grand Prix, where the top designers from Fiat, Jaguar and Ferrari show off their finest formula-one racers at an average speed of 250km/hr (150 mi/hr).    
europe_milan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This thriving industrial and cultural center on the banks of the Ticino river is probably best known for its prestigious university (alumni include explorer Christopher Columbus and physicist Alessandro Volta of 'volt' fame), but there are many reasons to make the half-hour trip from Milan.  The forbidding Castello Visconti was built in 1360 for Galeazzo II Visconti, who evidently had less frightening places to stay and never actually resided here. Regardless, the interesting medieval architecture and modern art museum inside make it an unusual attraction.  Even more amazing, the Gothic Certosa di Pavia, a 14th-century monastery, was once among the most lavish buildings in northern Italy. Tromp l'oeil murals, a 1409 sacristy composed entirely of hippopotamus teeth and scores of small sculptures made this a rather comfortable place to be a monk.  
europe_moldova_activities.html:  Activities  Moldova is hardly set up to cater for tourists, and much of the area is covered in cultivated fields which limit the number of energetic outdoorsy activities you can indulge in. If you're an adrenaline junkie and really need a fix, there's a parachuting club above the open-air festival stage in Chisinau. Lake Valea Morilor, a sprawling park west of Chisinau, offers caneoing and paddleboat opportunities and is a great place to relax and write those long-promised postcards. But the best idea is to drink your way round Moldova. By the time you've visited all the wineries in Moldova and sampled all the sparkling red wines, cabernets, sauvignons, rieslings and port wines, Moldova will look like a tourist's paradise and you'll be thankful that there are so few things that require physical exertion or your undivided attention.  
europe_moldova_attractions.html:  Attractions  Chisinau is a surprisingly green city on the banks of the Bac (Byk) River, flanked by parks and lakes. Despite being the transport hub of the country, its pretty tree-lined streets resemble a provincial town in Romania rather than a capital city. Bombs in WWII destroyed nearly two-thirds of Chisinau's old buildings, and it's obviously a city on the remake. It still has a wealth of stately old buildings and onion-domed cathedrals, but mixed in with these are the stark, Gulag-grey boxy buildings from the Stalinist era, offset by a number of funky bars and cafes sprouting up around the city and trying hard to swim against the prevailing economic current. Once in the surrounding rural areas, however, the extent of the poverty becomes obvious.  With the exception of the statues of the famous writers Alexander Pushkin (who spent his exiled years in Chisinau) and Mihai Eminescu, nearly every other piece of upright masonry in the city is a war monument of some sort. Inside the Stefan cel Mare Park, which dominates the western flank of Blvd Stefan cel Mare, is the statue of Stefan cel Mare. Needless to say, the medieval warrior-prince is still something of a hero in Moldova.  There are a number of art and history museums scattered around Moldova, but there's a truly mind-boggling exhibition in the National History Museum. It's a life-size rendering of the Soviet invasion of Chisinau in 1945. As if the original wasn't enough! As an antidote to all these slate grey men on slate grey horses head off to the Exhibition Hall, where contemporary art is on exhibition. The Galeria Brancusi, inside the hall, has pieces for sale for those interested in collecting international objets d'art.  Chisinau is tailor-made for the directionally challenged; straight streets in a rigid grid system. The main drag of Chisinau, the Blvd Stefan cel Mare, crosses the town from southeast to northwest. At the northern end is the central square, dominated by the blockbuster buildings, the main cathedrals and Moldova's Arc de Triomphe. Restaurants and hotels are scattered throughout the central city section. Although the streets are laid out in a straightforward fashion, the naming of them isn't. Some streets have their Moldovan name, some still bear their Russian name, and some have both old and new.  
europe_moldova_environment.html:  Environment  With the exception of Armenia, Moldova is the smallest of the former Soviet Republics but one of the most populated. At about twice the size of Hawaii it's a small area of land, roughly triangular in shape, cut from the larger cloths of Romania and Ukraine. Romania lies to the west of Moldova, and Ukraine closes around it on its northern, southern and eastern borders, effectively creating a landlocked republic although at its southernmost point it's only 100km (62mi) from the Black Sea. The two most significant geographical features are the Prut and the Dniestr Rivers, which not only form natural borders between Romania and Ukraine respectively but also provide one of Moldova's most precious resources, rich and fertile soil. The landscape is mostly flat steppe, or gentle rolling hills, with a few forested areas to provide visual relief.  It's still possible to see wild boars, badgers, foxes, wolves and various kinds of deer in the steppe, but Moldova is too small and too populated to support much in the way of wildlife. Large tracts of wilderness have been swallowed up by sprawling vineyards and cultivated fields that, in the summer months, turn into bright carpets of sunflowers. It's a Kodak moment just waiting to happen, particularly with the fruit orchards and whitewashed villages in the background, but this pretty-as-a-postcard Moldova hides a less attractive reality. During three decades of Soviet industrial expansion the environment was the biggest loser, and Moldova is now reaping what it sowed. The indiscriminate use of chemical fertilisers and pesticides has led to dangerously high levels of soil toxicity, while over-clearing, deforestation and failure to protect the natural fauna has led to a drastic reduction in biodiversity. Since the early 1990s Moldova has participated in a number of initiatives to protect the environment and rectify some of its worst excesses.  Moldova is often classified as having a temperate climate similar to that of Western Europe. The warm season lasts for well over three-quarters of the year and the sun shines on average once every second day. Despite this, it's still not quite the Bahamas. The average temperature hovers around a rather chilly 10 C (50 F) and in the winter months regularly slips a few notches below zero.  
europe_moldova_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas:All Western visitors require a visa. To get a visa everyone except US, Canadian, Israeli and EU-member citizens require an invitation or proof of prebooked accommodation from a company or organisation.Health risks: No vaccinations required. A certificate confirming HIV-negative status must be obtained if staying for longer than three months.Time: GMT/UTC plus two hours (a further hour ahead in summer)Electricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Moldova has very few culturally specific festivals or calendar highlights, and usually a trip there is combined with a trip to neighbouring Romania. It's worth taking this into consideration when deciding when to go, but as a general rule the best time to visit is September or October. May through to August can also be pleasant, although you run the risk of a snow flurry or two and low temperatures early in the season.     Events  There are very few ritual events celebrated in Moldova, mostly because the republic is still in its infancy and is experiencing painful teething problems. It's hardly had time to clear away the rubble from all the old Lenin statues, let alone organise feasts, fetes and fiestas. The one truly Moldovan event is Independence Day, celebrated on 27 August. For the residents of Transdniestr this is like waving a red rag at a bull, and celebrations are usually boycotted by those living east of the Dniestr River.    
europe_moldova_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The ancient city of Orheuil Vechi or old Orhei, sometimes referred to as Trebujeni, is out in the boondocks of Moldova. It's a bit of an archaeological wonder, holding the remnants of a civilisation ancient enough to think that stone tools were the height of sophistication, as well as the ruins of a medieval village. The remnants of this village - including the vestiges of a mosque, two mausolea, a caravan-seraglio, three bathhouses and a typical Moldovan house - are open to the public. The rest of the complex includes an ancient fortress built by the indefatigable Stefan cel Mare in the 14th century and destroyed by the equally indefatigable Tartars in 1499, and an ancient monastery carved out of the face of a lime cliff.  The cave-monastery of Butuceni was built by monks during the 13th century and is a classic example of the role that architecture played in the medieval ages. It was built not only as a place of worship but as a refuge during times of adversity . The interior is an almost seamless web of corridors, devoid of geometrical lines or sharp turns, with light penetrating the gloom through rectangular doors hewn out of the stone. At some stage during the 18th century the faithful from neighbouring Butuceni dug a tunnel through to the chapel so that they could practice their religion in relative secrecy.  Getting to Orheuil Vechi by public transport is tough. It involves firstly getting a bus from Chisinau to the town of Orhei, about 50km (30mi), and from there another bus to Orheuil Vechi or Trebujeni (another 10km/6mi). Ask the bus driver to drop you off at the monastery complex on the way. A taxi can also shuttle you between Orhei and Orheuil Vechi.  
europe_monaco_activities.html:  Activities  What would an internationally famous resort be without novel ways to drain your cash supplies? Foremost among Monaco's entertainment options is a flutter at the Casino. Celeb spotters will be unable to resist Monte Carlo's beach, where the swimming is lousy but the tanning and conspicuous yacht parties are world class. Those with a taste for strolling should be able to circumnavigate the country (4.5 km of borders) before lunch, taking in some beautiful gardens, touristy alleys and views of France and Italy along the way.  
europe_monaco_attractions.html:  Attractions  Monaco's royal palace has been around since the 13th century. Every Grimaldi since has found it necessary to leave their mark on the place, and as a result this is not one of Europe's most elegant castles. It is worth taking a look inside though - 15 rooms, including the Throne Room, are open to the public. If you've already blown your cash and can't afford the entrance fee, the changing of the guard won't cost you a cent. It starts at 11:55am precisely and is over within two minutes, so be on time.  In the south wing of the palace, the Musee des Souvenirs Napoleoniens has a collection of Napoleon's personal knickknacks, including one sock, a handkerchief and a bunch of medals, coins, uniforms and swords.  
europe_monaco_environment.html:  Environment  A tiny speck on France's eastern Mediterranean coast, Monaco weighs in at an awesome 1.95 sq km. There isn't a great deal of geographic variety possible in such a small area. Most of the country is hilly, rugged and rocky, and there are some very fetching sea cliffs.  Those keen on wildlife spotting are best advised to visit the Monaco aquarium. The country is almost entirely urban and not the best place for nature lovers. With no forest or woodland cover left here, the only fauna you're likely to see are cockroaches, alley cats and other tourists.  Monaco's climate is typically Mediterranean, with a bit of rain but not too much chill in the winter. Summers are dry and can get very hot. The Monegasque claim they enjoy 300 days of sunshine a year.  
europe_monaco_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: No visa is required for stays of up to 90 daysTime:GMT/UTC plus one hour (plus two hours in summer)Electricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The shoulder seasons - April/May and September/October - are the most pleasant times, climatically, to visit Monaco. Summer - June to August - can be very hot, and you'll be pressing flesh with most of Europe. Winter is a better bet, as it may be a bit rainy but it's unlikely to be too cold. Car-racing fans will probably want to be here either in January for the Motor Rally or May for the Grand Prix.     Events  Monaco is a country that thrives on spectacle and glitz. The big one for the year has to be the Formula One Grand Prix, held in mid-May, when the world's best drivers hit the city streets and crossing the road becomes an extreme sport. Those who can't get enough of big, throbbing engines should also be in town in January for the Monte Carlo Motor Rally. Dedicated to showing off in all its forms, Monaco also hosts the International Circus Festival in January, the Great Magic Prize (an international prestidigitators' playoff) in March and the International Fireworks Competition (duked out in the natural amphitheatre of Monaco's harbour) in July.    
europe_monaco_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Who would've thought cacti could be so much fun? With 7000 varieties of cacti and succulents, the Jardin Exotique is paradise for prickle-lovers. If 7000 cacti is about 6998 too many, the Jardin is still worth a visit for its spectacular views. The entry price also gets you into a cave complex packed full of stalagmites and stalactites, and the Musee d'Anthropologie Prehistorique, which tells the history of humanity through archaeological finds from the area.  
europe_moscow_activities.html:  Activities  Moscow is a snowy place, and its sports are appropriately snow-centred. There are a number of parks in the city where you can do a little cross-country skiing, or if you're keen for speed there are a couple of downhill runs just outside the city. You'll feel like a real Muscovite if you strap on your skates and hit the ice on one of the city's many outdoor skating rinks - you might have to bring your own skates, as rentals are a bit hard to come by. Public swimming pools are a tad tricky, as you have to have a doctor's certificate saying you're healthy enough to take the plunge. Chaika Swimming Pool offers a check-up on the spot, or head to Transvaal Park entertainment and water park. On hot summer days you can head to Serebryaniy, just north of the city, for some sand between your toes.  
europe_moscow_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Kremlin is the place to which all Russian roads lead and from which most Russian power emanates. Here Ivan the Terrible and Stalin orchestrated their terrors; Napoleon watched Moscow burn; Lenin fashioned the dictatorship of the proletariat; Khrushchev led communism in the Cold War; Gorbachev unleashed perestroika (restructuring); and Yeltsin struggled to keep reform afloat. The Kremlin occupies a roughly triangular plot of land covering little Borovitsky Hill on the north bank of the Moscow River, probably first settled in the 11th century. Today it's enclosed by high walls. Red Square lies outside the east wall. The Kutafya Tower, which forms the main visitors' entrance, stands away from the Kremlin's west wall.  Most vistors are surprised to see so many churches in what was, for decades, a den of militant atheism, but the Kremlin was once the centre of Russia's Church as well as its State. Start with Archangel Cathedral (the royal burial church), Assumption Cathedral (the burial church of religious leaders) and Annunciation Cathedral (icons, icons everywhere). Ivan the Great Bell Tower is a famous Moscow landmark, visible from 30km (20mi) away, with the cracked Tsar Bell at its foot. The towers lining the Kremlin include the Secrets Tower (the oldest) and Gothic and Renaissance Saviour Gate Tower.  
europe_moscow_facts.html:  When to Go  July and August are the warmest months in Moscow and the main holiday season for foreigners and Russians. Summer days are long and can be wet. By the end of November Moscow is frozen most of the time and serious snow arrives in December and stays until April. Spring arrives fast and with a great thaw, a month or so long, and people go a touch crazy.     Events  Moscow's festivals have shaken off their joyous-workers'-march past image and are now shaking booty with the best of them. A great many festivals are derived from Orthodox church tradition. Orthodox Christmas begins with midnight mass on 7 January. Orthodox Easter, known as Paskha, falls some time in March or April - it begins with a midnight church service, after which people eat special dome-shape cakes (kulichy) and curd cakes and swap painted wooden eggs. The Contemporary Music Festival is held at venues all over the city in early summer. In odd-numbered years, the Moscow Film Festival hits the city's screens in autumn. The Russian Winter Festival is pretty much a tourist affair, with troyka rides, folklore shows, games and vodka, and is celebrated between 25 December and 5 January. December and January also play host to the December Nights Festival, when classical music is performed at the main halls, theatres and museums. Sylvestr is the Russian New Year celebration, and is the main gift-giving festival of the year, with presents placed under the traditional fir tree. Muscovites see out the old year with vodka and welcome the new one with champagne.  Aside from the main public holidays, other days that are celebrated are 23 February (Defenders of the Motherland Day), Easter Monday and 12 December (Constitution Day). The old Great October Socialist Revolution Anniversary (7 November) is still a big day for marches by the Communist Party. Much of Russia shuts down for the first half of May and its wealth of holidays.   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day 7 January - Russian Orthodox Christmas Day 8 March - International Women's Day 1 & 2 May - International Labour Day/Spring Festival 9 May - Victory (1945) Day 12 June - Russian Independence Day 7 November - Day of Reconciliation and Accord (rebranded Revolution Day)back to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to MoscowTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_moscow_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Sandunovskiye Baths, in the narrow winding streets of the city's north, is Moscow's most famous bathhouse. These fading but grand 19th-century baths are a mixture of sauna and social club, with the sexes strictly segregated. For hours you can move between steam rooms and pools, interspersed with massages and birch-twig whippings. Traditionally men have a few beers with their mates while they steam themselves silly.  
europe_munich_activities.html:  Activities  There's stacks of outdoor fun to be had in Munich. First off, there's boating in the English Garden, rafting on the Isar River, nude bathing on the riverbanks, surfing like you've never seen in the English Garden and heaps of swimming opportunities, complete with diving towers and saunas (swimming in the river isn't advisable, but heaps of people do it in summer). Cycling is made easier by the provision of bike routes, and if you'd rather move with the pack there are several pedal tours, complete with running commentary and beer-garden finale. Ice skating can be had year-round in the Olympiapark, and in winter at Nymphenburg and in the English Garden. In-line skating can be done at Kunstpark Ost and Olympiapark. Tennis has been popular here ever since Boris Becker hit the court in the 1980s. Indoor sorts can try their hand at one of the city's billiard halls.  
europe_munich_attractions.html:  Attractions  Visit Marienplatz on a warm sunny day and you'll find the world and its dog enjoying this open expanse of cafes. It's the Altstadt's heart and soul, punctuated by the Mary-&-child-bedecked Mariensäule, erected in 1638 to celebrate the end of Swedish occupation. The spikes and turrets of the 19th-century neo-Gothic Neues Rathaus grace the square's northern border, while the forlorn bombed remains of the original town hall, the Altes Rathaus (1474), squat at its eastern end. The obvious photo opportunity is the Glockenspiel in the centre of the Neues Rathaus; the marvellous figures spring into action at 11am, noon, 5 and 9pm. Take a lift to the top of the ridiculously spindly spire for more pix. The nearby Fishbrunnen harks back to medieval market days, when fish were kept alive in the fountain before being sold. Dip your purse in on Ash Wednesday and it will always be full - and if you believe that, you deserve to have a soggy wallet.   The square is graced by two churches. If the Föhn is blowing you can see the Alps in all their glory from the top of the Gothic St Peterskirche, and the rococo ceiling of the Heiliggeistkirche is just as gob-smacking. The other church you can see to the northwest is the city's trademark Frauenkirche - those oxidised copper onion domes are reproduced on everything from beersteins to tea towels. Ludwig the Bavarian is buried here. To the north there's Ludwig's Alter Hof, home of the Wittelsbachs before they moved to the Residenz; it received its severe neo-Gothic facelift during 19th-century renovations. Follow the raucous racket of cheers and oompah-music to the nearby Hofbräuhaus. Hitler's National Socialists first met here in 1920, and today the lovely old building is filled to the brim with beer-guzzling sightseers.  
europe_munich_facts.html:  When to Go  Munich's tourist rush is on for one and all between May and September, when the weather just happens to be finest. The shoulder seasons - April-May, September-October - are great times to visit, with fewer visitors (but not during Oktoberfest!) and enough sunshine to go around. If you visit between November and March you'll have the place pretty much to yourself, along with the below-freezing temperatures and sunless skies. As a general rule, you can expect rain any time of year and there's also a chance of experiencing the Föhn, a warm, dry wind that's blamed for everything from headaches to crankiness and lethargy.     Events  Munich's annual festivals are launched in January with the pre-Lent Carnival, a raucous six-week-long affair of street parties and balls. Lent comes to an end in March with Starkbierzeit, when strong beers with names ending in 'ator' are consumed (Triumphator, Salvator, Maximator, etceterator) in a tradition going back to monkish days. April welcomes spring with a mini Oktoberfest called the Frühlingsfest (much less crowded than the real thing). Every second year, in even years, Munich's music and theatre Biennale is held, and late June sees the Tollwood world culture festival at Olympiapark. Also in June, Corpus Christi is a big deal in Bavaria, with street parades and dressed-up horses. The month ends with the Munich Film Festival, a scaled-down version of Berlin's renowned festival. July's Christopher Street Day spills over into three days of gay and lesbian fun, with street parties and high-heeled races. The Opera Festival brings highbrow entertainment to the State Opera House, while Sommerfest hosts two weeks of live bands and outdoor sport contests in Olympiapark. Just to confuse matters, Oktoberfest is held in September, perhaps because it's the biggest collective booze-up on the planet. The year groans to a close with the Winter Tollwood, a smaller version of the June world culture event, and a huge Christkindlmarkt is held on Marienplatz, complete with an outsized Christmas tree and stalls selling handicrafts and cockle-warming GlüHwein.  Munich's public holidays include New Year's Day (1 January), Epiphany (6 January), Easter, Labour Day (1 May), Ascension Day (40 days after Easter), Whit/Pentecost (May or June), Corpus Christi (June), Assumption Day (15 August), Day of German Unity (3 October), All Saints' Day (1 November), Christmas and Boxing Day/St Stephen's Day (25 & 26 December).    
europe_munich_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  You want palaces? Schleissheim's got plenty of 'em. Spectacular Neues Schloss Schleissheim follows the Versailles model of palatial excess, complete with vaulted frescoed ceilings and picnic-friendly grounds. The once-splendid Renaissance Altes Schloss Schleissheim is a reconstructed rump of its bombed-out former glory, housing a collection of Christmas cribs and Easter eggs. Schloss Lustheim has a stunning Baroque interior and a huge collection of Meissen porcelain. For something completely different, pop into the Flugwerft Schleissheim, the aviation branch of the Deutsches Museum, with aircraft from around the world. To get to Schleissheim, take the S-Bahn to Oberschleissheim, and follow the signposts for 15 minutes.  
europe_naples_activities.html:  Activities  Naples is decidedly short on green space, but you can always go and watch poor old Napoli, the local football team. The most revered institution in town after San Gennaro, they yo-yo from season to season between the Italian first and second divisions.  Stretching your own legs might mean shopping: Via dei Tribunali, Via B Croce and the surrounding side streets are the place to find gold, nativity scenes and other Christmas items. If that doesn't get the heart racing, stride to Largo San Martino for panoramic city views.  
europe_naples_attractions.html:  Attractions  This grand cathedral was built on the site of earlier churches, which were themselves preceded by a temple to the pre-Christian god Neptune. Construction of the cathedral kicked off in 1272 under Charles I of Anjou, but the building was largely destroyed in 1456 by an earthquake and has undergone numerous alterations. The neogothic facade is the result of cosmetic surgery in the late 19th century. Inside, above the wide central nave, is an ornately decorated coffered ceiling.  Central to Naples' religious (or superstitious) life is the 17th-century Baroque Cappella di San Gennaro, to the right and down the south aisle after you enter the building. Within the chapel, stowed behind the elaborately carved high altar, are the skull and a couple of phials of the congealed blood of San Gennaro, the city's patron saint. He was martyred at Pozzuoli, west of Naples in AD 305 and tradition holds that these phials of his blood liquefied when his body was transferred back to Naples. Three times a year, thousands gather here to pray for a miracle - that the blood will again liquefy and save Naples from any potential disaster. The saint is said to have saved the city from calamity on numerous occasions - although the miracle unspectacularly failed to occur in 1941 when Vesuvius erupted.  
europe_naples_facts.html:  When to Go  The best time to visit is from April to June, when prices are lower and there's elbow room in Naples'lively streets and piazzas. Late July and August is the time to avoid Italy altogether - the weather boils, prices are inflated and the whole country swarms with holidaymakers. Most Italians go on holiday in August, abandoning the cities and leaving many shops, hotels and restaurants closed.     Events  Naples' main festivals honour San Gennaro. On the first Sunday in May, on 19 September and on 16 December each year, thousands gather in the cathedral for the Festa di San Gennaro to pray that the saint's blood, held in two phials, will liquefy: a miracle said to save the city from potential disasters.  Other important festivals are the Madonna del Carmine held on 16 July in Piazza del Carmine, which culminates in a fireworks display and the Madonna di Piedigrotta (5 to 12 September). At Christmas, thousands of elaborate nativity scenes are erected around the city.   Neapolis Rock Festival, held at the height of summer, attracts top international acts. It's held west of town, down by the beach at Arenile di Bagnoli.    
europe_naples_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Work on a new palace for Charles of Bourbon started in 1738 and took almost a century to complete. On the northern edge of the city, the distinctive pinky-orange and grey palace is set in glorious parklands that were once aristocratic hunting grounds. Extensively restored during the last decade, the palace houses the Museo e Gallerie di Capodimonte, which displays the important Farnese collection. The extensive collection boasts works by Bellini, Botticelli, Caravaggio, Correggio, Masaccio and Titian. One of its most famous paintings is Masaccio's Crocifissione (Crucifixion). Other highlights are Bellini's Trasfigurazione (Transfiguration), and nine canvases by Titian.  
europe_netherlands_activities.html:  Activities  If it involves water, frozen or not, you'll find scores of enthusiasts doing it in the Netherlands. Other activities aided by flat land - biking and walking - are naturals and part of the national image. Cycling is, in fact, the most popular activity in the country, helped along by dedicated bike lanes and paths, guarded parking areas and road rules that increasingly favour cyclists over cars. The smooth cycle paths are also used a lot by in-line skaters. Windsurfing and sailing have a lot of fans in the waterlogged provinces of Friesland and Zeeland. If it's cold enough in winter it's possible to make long ice-skating tours from town to town along connecting canals. Wadlopen is a serious pastime - strenuous and at times dangerous - involving long low-tide walks in mud that can come up to your thighs. Yes, people really do this. Groningen, in the north, is the best place to organise your mud-walking excursion.  
europe_netherlands_attractions.html:  Attractions  Amsterdam, the Netherlands' capital, is one of the world's best hangouts, a place where you can immerse yourself in history, in art, in the head of a beer or a self-rolled smokestack. The city is a canny blend of old and new: radical squatter art installations hang off 17th-century eaves, BMWs give way to bicycles and triple-strength monk-made beer is served in steel and glass 'grand cafes'. Amsterdam combines a huge case of big-city exuberance with small-town manageability; it doesn't take much more than chaining your bike to a bridge to feel like you've got a handle on the place.  Amsterdam is a cosmopolitan cauldron which has been enticing migrants and nonconformists for decades. It's a thriving city, and one of the hardest for travellers to leave, going on the number of expats trying to bike around like locals. Amsterdam seems to thrive on its funky mix, and there's very little of the tourist-fatigue which can take the happy edge off other LOB (lots of backpacks) cities. Perhaps this is because Amsterdam's quintessential Dutchness shines through: the 17th- and 18th-century architecture, the fleets of bicycles, the tree-lined canals and scattered parks all contribute to the mood of the city. As do the pavement-logs - Dutchies love their pooches and this is one of the squish 'n' squirm capitals of the world.  
europe_netherlands_environment.html:  Environment  Although the Dutch have the cute habit of calling anything higher than a speed bump a mountain, the Netherlands is largely a flat and soggy bog. Vast amounts of land has been reclaimed from the sea over the centuries, and the drained polders are protected by dykes, very few of which are plugged by little boys' fingers. More than half of the country lies below sea level and only in the south-east Limburg province will you find hills. The Netherlands is bordered by the North Sea, Belgium and Germany. The Rhine is the major river, slurping up runoff from the proper mountains in Germany and Switzerland and slopping it out all over the flatlands.  One of the country's worst disasters hit in 1953, when a high spring tide coupled with a severe storm breached the dykes in Zeeland drowning 1835 people. To ensure the tragedy would never be repeated, the Delta Project blocked the south-west river deltas using a network of dams, dykes and a remarkable 3.2km storm surge barrier which is only lowered in rough conditions. In 1995 the largest mandatory evacuation in the Netherlands since the Zeeland disaster was carried out after heavy rain in France and Belgium caused the Meuse and Waal rivers to flood. Some 240,000 people were relocated from Gelderland, the region around Nijmegen, due to fears that dykes along the two rivers would burst.  Forget about wilderness in the Netherlands. This is Europe's most densely populated country, but it feels like the most organised place in the world. The western hoop of cities including Amsterdam, the Hague and Rotterdam is one of the most densely populated conurbations on earth, and even out of this area it doesn't get exactly isolated. Towns often blur from one to the next, linked by highways and bicycle paths. Neat, flat, muddy fields and tame and pleasant woodlands act as buffers; there are even places where you can hear the twittering of birds above the constant traffic drone.  The Netherlands has a temperate maritime climate with cool winters and mild summers. It can get pretty drizzly here, especially in autumn and spring when it can seem as though it's going to be grey forever. But because the Netherlands is such a flat slab of a place, changes sweep through quickly when the wind starts to blow.  
europe_netherlands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: European Union residents just need their EU papers to enter. No visas are required for travellers from Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Japan and the USA for visits of up to 90 days.Health risks: Cholesterol and spinning out, manTime: GMT/UTC +1Electricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: metricTourism: 6.5 million visitors per year When to Go  Hordes of tourists snap their way around the Netherlands in summer, but there's no denying that this is the best time of year to sit by the canals for a sip and a toke. Spring is a good time to visit as the bulbs are in bloom - April for daffodils, tulips in May. If you can be in Amsterdam for Koninginnedag (April 30), do it! Rain is spread pretty evenly over the year, so there's not much point trying to avoid Dutch drizzle. Winter can get bitingly cold, but the museums are quiet, and if everything freezes over, there's great ice skating on the canals and flood plains.     Events  A cold January invites endless speculation about the nation-stopping Elfstedentocht (Eleven Cities Journey), a gruelling skating marathon though the countryside of Friesland. The last one was held in 1997, but it could be decades before it all freezes over again. Carnival in February is an excuse for silly costumes and revelling celebrated mostly in the Catholic south. Koninginnedag (Queen's Day) is on April 30 and is a huge party day in Amsterdam. The whole central city becomes a huge street market/party where anyone can sell whatever they like - it's a madhouse. The Holland Festival in June is celebrated mostly in Amsterdam and The Hague. It's often highbrow and pretentious but there are many fringe events. The Hague's North Sea Jazz Festival each July is the world's biggest jazz junket.   Sinterklaas (Santa Claus) is the white-bearded patron saint of children who arrives 'from Spain' in mid-November. He is accompanied by a host of mischievous servants called Zwarte Pieten (Black Peters) - there are lots of PC Blue and Green Peters these days. On the evening of 5 December, people give one another anonymous and creatively wrapped gifts accompanied by poems about the recipient written by Sinterklaas. The Dutch sensibly have two Christmas Days (on 25 and 26 December), which is handy for step-families. Fireworks are only allowed to be sold in the days preceding New Year's Eve - there are hundreds of injuries each drunken, crackin 'n' bangin' 31 December.    
europe_netherlands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The country's five northern isles in the shallow Waddenzee stretch in an arc from Texel to Schiermonnikoog. They are important bird-breeding grounds and provide an escape for stressed southerners who want to touch roots with nature. Texel is the largest and most populated island - it has 24km (15mi) of beaches and hosts the world's largest catamaran race in June. Texel is the only Dutch-speaking island; Friesian is the language of the other four. Terschelling is known as a good-time isle, while Vlieland has more of a family atmosphere. Ameland has quaint villages but explodes with tourists during summer. Ferries from Den Helder, Harlingen, Holwerd and Lauwersoog connect the islands to the mainland, and there are hostels on all except Vlieland.  
europe_nice_activities.html:  Activities  The landscape of the Alpes-Maritime area is perfect for a variety of activities, including hiking, mountain biking and horse riding in the nearby Parc National du Mercantour. For downhill skiing, the closest resort is Greolieres (1400-1800m/4600-5900ft), which is 60km(37mi) away. There's a leisure park at Castel Des Deux Rois to keep the kids amused, and parts of Nice's 7.5km(4.5mi) of pebbly beach have areas reserved for children. Water sports facilities are widely available throughout the area, including water-skiing, jet-skiing, sailboarding and diving. Boat excursions head off to the les de Lerins, Monaco and San Remo. And of course the promenade des Anglais is the place for rollerblading; blades can be hired on the promenade itself or near the train station.  
europe_nice_attractions.html:  Attractions  Nice's old town is a delightful mish-mash of winding streets, lively squares and Genoese, Proven al, medieval and baroque architecture, all overlooked by a 92m (300ft) hill known as Le Ch teau. The park atop the hill has spectacular views of the old town, the bay and the port with its pretty le-de-Beaute square bordered by ochre houses. Vieux Nice also has plenty of cafes and restaurants, and is a top spot in the evenings, with a swag of places to booze and boogie.  If you want to see Italian baroque churches, Saint-Martin-Saint-Augustin (the oldest church in Nice), Saint-Fran ois-de-Paule (baroque and classical), Saint-Giuame (also known as Saint-Jacques, l'Annonciation and Sainte-Rita) and the elegant Chapelle de la Misericorde should keep you busy. The cathedrale Sainte Reparate (1650-80) in the area's central square, place Rossetti, was built in honour of the city's patron saint; the steeple dates from the 18th century.   Palais Lascaris is a beautiful example of Genoese baroque architecture, featuring a sweeping staircase decorated with frescoes. It's also home to an 18th-century apothecary and a museum of local history. If you head past the palace towards the sea you hit the bustling cours Saleya, with its flower and vegetable market, and the Paillon gardens which separate the old and new towns. The belle epoque Opera is just off the cours Saleya.  
europe_nice_facts.html:  When to Go  Don't come to Nice in July or August if you dislike strong heat, crowds of holidaymakers and serious traffic jams. May and June are the most pleasant months, followed by September and October. Partygoers will enjoy the carnival in February.  With over 2500 hours of sunshine every year, Nice boasts an exceptionally mild climate. The average daily temperature hovers around 15 C/59 F, soaring up to 40 C/104 F in July-August and rarely dipping below 5 C/41 F in winter (November-February). In summer the water temperature is a languid 20-25 C (68-77 F).     Events  Nice has plenty of events and festivals year-round but several stand out. The two-week Nice Carnival in February celebrates Mardi Gras in a blaze of colourful floats and masked parades. In July the main venue for the Nice Jazz Festival is an attractive old olive grove in Cimiez. Also in July are the Nuits Musicales de Nice, three weeks of open-air, classical music concerts in the cloisters of Cimiez Monastery. During the musical season (October-June), the Opera de Nice stages ballets, recitals and operas. September sees Nice get sporty with the Triathlon de Nice, an international event involving swimming in the baie des Anges, cycling through the hills behind the city, and sprinting down the promenade des Anglais - easy!    
europe_nice_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Commissioned by Nicolas II and his mother, and completed in 1912, this church was designed to resemble Saint-Basile in Moscow. With its six onion domes and the mix of grey marble, brightly coloured ceramic and red brick, the effect is definitely exotic. Inside, the frescoes, icons and panelling smack of Imperial Russia. The cathedral is in a park setting, north of the train station, and is open to visitors as long as they dress appropriately: no shorts, sleeveless shirts or mini skirts, please.  
europe_norway_activities.html:  Activities  Norway has thousands of kilometers of maintained cross-country ski trails and scores of resorts with downhill ski runs, including the Holmenkollen area on the outskirts of Oslo, Geilo, Lillehammer and the surrounding Gudbrandsdalen region. If you're a summer skier, head for the glaciers near Finse, Stryn or the Jotunheimen mountains. Norway's vast wilderness areas mean you can go mountain climbing in Åndalsnes, birdwatching in the Lofoten islands of Røst and Værøy, and glacier hiking in Nigardsbreen near Sogndal. Other good hiking spots are the Jotunheimen and Rondane mountains and the Hardanger plateau. A fjord cruise is a must, especially along the breathtaking Sognefjord. Norway also has good saltwater and freshwater fishing.  
europe_norway_attractions.html:  Attractions  Oslo sits at the head of the Oslofjord, an inlet of the Skagerrak. It is the oldest of the Scandinavian capitals, having been founded by Harald Hardrada in 1048. After being levelled by fire in 1624, the city was rebuilt in brick and stone by King Christian IV, who renamed it Christiania - a name which stuck until 1925 when it reverted back to Oslo.  Despite being Norway's largest city, Oslo is remarkably low-key. The city centre is a pleasant jumble of old and new architecture with an abundance of museums, parks and monuments. It's also a remarkably easy city to get around, with most sights within walking distance of the centre or effortlessly reached by public transport.  A must see in Oslo is the Akershus Fortress, a medieval fortress and castle built around 1300. The Akershus Castle is especially memorable and contains dungeons possessing dark little cubby holes where the prisoners were kept under lock and key; plush upper floors with banquet halls and staterooms; and the chapel, still used for royal events, which holds the crypts of King Håkon VII and Olav V. During WW II the Nazis used Akershus as a prison and place of execution, and today it's the site of Norway's Resistance Museum, which gives a vivid account of German occupation and the Norwegian struggle against it. The site is surrounded by park-like grounds, offering excellent views of the city and harbour. There are concerts, dances and theatrical productions held here during summer.   Vigeland Park is a wonderful expanse of greenery, duck ponds and rows of shady trees - the ideal place for leisurely strolls and picnics on the lawn. Its central walkway is flanked with life-size statues by Gustav Vigeland, a prolific artist who presented the human form in a range of emotions and poses. Probably the most impressive piece is a monolith of writhing bodies, believed to be the world's largest granite sculpture. For a more in-depth look at the development of Vigeland's work, check out the Vigeland Museum across from the park. Other artistic shrines include the National Theatre, with its lavish rococo hall, which was built a century ago to stage Ibsen's plays; and the Munch Museum, which contains more than 5000 drawings and paintings bequeathed to the city by Norway's most famous artist. Munch's most famous painting, The Scream, resides in the National Gallery, though it went for a short, unexpected holiday in 1994.  A 10-minute ferry ride across the harbour takes you to Bygdøy. This peninsula has some of Oslo's most outstanding attractions including Norway's largest open-air folk museum; maritime museums housing excavated Viking ships and Thor Heyerdahl's balsa raft Kon-Tiki; restored stave churches; and a couple of good beaches. Also easily reached by public transport is the Nordmarka, a wilderness area on Oslo's northern border, which is crossed by hiking and skiing trails.  The majority of Oslo's budget accommodation and eateries can be found in or close to the city centre. Karl Johans Gate, the main street, is lined with shops, and is a popular haunt for buskers. Oslo's nightlife includes the usual mix of theatres, live music, discos, clubs, pubs, gay bars and drag shows.  
europe_norway_environment.html:  Environment  Norway occupies the western part of the Scandinavian peninsula and shares borders with Sweden, Finland and Russia. Shaped like the rind on the bacon rasher of Scandinavia, Norway has a long coastline pierced by fjords and a mountainous interior that is blanketed by some of Europe's largest glaciers. Over 500 sq km of Norway lies north of the Arctic Circle, but the country's western coast usually remains ice free year-round thanks to the warm waters of the Gulf Stream.  Only 3% of Norway is arable. Some 27% remains forested, though acid rain is affecting forests thanks to pollutants pumped into the atmosphere by Russia, Germany and the UK. Fauna includes reindeer, wolves, musk oxen and lemmings. Many of Norway's 30,000 Lapps live a traditional nomadic life herding reindeer in the far north. The paucity of productive farmland has focused Norwegian attention on the sea, and commercial fishing plays an important role both in the economy and the social fabric of the nation. Norway resumed commercial whaling of minke whales in 1993 in defiance of an international whaling ban, and in early 2001 announced that it was set to lift a ban on exports of the magnificent mammal's blubber.  Norway's coastal areas have a surprisingly temperate climate thanks to the Gulf Stream, especially in the summer months. The mountainous inland regions experience more extreme ranges of temperatures, and the northern highlands suffer Arctic conditions. The country is at its best and brightest from May to September, and at its worst between November and March when average temperatures are below freezing. Midnight-sun days, when the sun never drops below the horizon, extend from 13 May to 29 July at Nordkapp in the far north, and from 28 May to 14 July in the Lofoten islands. Even southern Norway has daylight from 4 am to 11 pm in midsummer. On the other hand, the sun does not rise in the north from the end of November to the end of January, which is fine if you're angst-ridden, bed-ridden or vampiric.  
europe_norway_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Scandinavian citizens can enter Norway freely without a passport. Citizens of the USA, Canada, Ireland, the UK, Australia and New Zealand do not require visas for stays of less than three months. The same is true for EU and EAA countries, most of Latin America and most Commonwealth countries.Health risks: NoneTime:GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity: 220V, 50-60 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Norway is at its best and brightest from May to September. Late spring is a particularly pleasant time - fruit trees are in bloom, daylight hours are long, the weather is mild and most hostels and sights are open but uncrowded. Summers are marked by the phenomena of the midnight sun, especially north of the Artic Circle. At Nordkapp, in the far north, the sun stays out from 13 May to 29 July, but nowhere in the country - even the far south, experiences true darkness between late May and late July.  Unless you're heavily into winter skiing or searching for the Aurora Borealis of the polar nights, Norway's cold, dark winters are not the prime time to visit.     Events  The country's biggest holiday is Constitution Day (17 May), when many Norwegians take to the streets attired in traditional folk costumes. Another popular holiday is Midsummer's Eve (usually held on 23 June), which is celebrated with bonfires on the beach. The Sami people (Lapps) also hold colourful celebrations at Easter in Karasjok and Kautokeino. Festivities include reindeer races, joik (traditional chanting) and concerts.    
europe_norway_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This national park is one of Norway's best wilderness destinations. It has a network of hiking trails leading to some 60 glaciers and to the country's loftiest peaks. The trails pass through ravine-like valleys and past deep lakes and plunging waterfalls. Huts and private lodgings are along many of the routes. The park is on the road between Sogndal and Lom, in central Norway.  
europe_oslo_activities.html:  Activities  If you crave the great outdoors and you're visiting Oslo in summer, then you're in luck. Oslo is very much a 'get out and do it' place. In summer, swimming is possible at the nearby beaches and hiking can be enjoyed by following a good selection of trails. Oslo's fresh air is good for cycling, climbing and horse riding - your lungs will thank you. Boat trips, folk dancing and fishing are also popular activities. Winter visitors don't miss out either. Aside from the awesome skiing opportunities, ice skating can be enjoyed, particularly when the Narvisen outdoor rinks freeze over naturally. Dog sledding and sleigh rides are a winter novelty for many visitors.  
europe_oslo_attractions.html:  Attractions  Imagine a museum that allows you to tour most of Norway in just one day. Picture wandering the streets of old Norway and getting a feel of what life was like hundreds of years ago. One of Oslo's biggest drawcards, the Norwegian Folk Museum, allows you to do just that. This fascinating open-air museum contains around 150 buildings from different regions, mostly dating from the 17th and 18th centuries, including one of Norway's oldest structures, the Gol Stave Church, built early in the 13th century in Gol and moved to its present location in 1885. You'll wander past old banks, pharmacies, post offices, barns and farmhouses and see folk dancing and weaving and people dressed in festive costumes. The Old Town section reproduces an early 20th century town and contains a petrol station and a general store, and the first thing you'll come across as you step through the main entrance is a huge display of old toys, costumes, tools and appliances from around the country. The museum is on the Bygdøy peninsula, a 10-minute ferry trip from central Oslo.  
europe_oslo_facts.html:  When to Go  Oslo's summers are warm compared to the rest of Scandinavia and even its winters don't have that hard edge that many expect. Days of 30 C (86 F) aren't frequent but neither are they uncommon in summer, although visitors are more likely to experience mild, sunny days of around 22 C (72 F) in July. The sun is never far from the horizon in mid-summer in Oslo while in the northern part of the country, it never sets at all. Consequently, winter means there's little sunlight. During the day, the city seems covered by eternal dusk. The one drawback about high summer is that Oslo is positively crowded with tourists and therefore prices, and demand for accommodation, rise. May is a good time to visit as the weather is getting warmer and the tourist season hasn't quite begun. If it's cold and it's snowsports you're after, then Oslo in winter is a majestic sight as a blanket of white covers the city. Temperatures won't really climb over 0 C (32 F) in mid-winter. Oslo's rainfall is spread throughout the year but March, April and May have the lowest averages.     Events  Oslo celebrates Norway's national holiday, Constitution Day (17 May), with gusto. People take to the streets in traditional dress and marching bands and thousands of schoolchildren parade down Karl Johans Gate to the Royal Palace and are greeted by the royal family. In March, there's the Holmenkollen ski festival and in August the Oslo International Jazz Festival draws a large following. The Ultima Contemporary Music Festival gets going in October.    
europe_oslo_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  A pleasant day trip from Oslo, this charming town contains numerous clapboard timber buildings. Santa Claus apparently calls Drøbak home and has his own post office here. You can send Christmas cards with the official Santa stamp 365 days of the year from here. The town has a Christmas theme pretty much all year round. Drøbak is mainly a summer hideaway for Oslo residents, but there are a few things for tourists to do here. The Oscarsborg fortress was built in 1845 and sits on a small island in the fjord. Shots fired from here sunk the German warship Blücher in 1940. Most of Drøbak overlooks the fortress. Other things to pass time in Drøbak are a visit to the Saltvannsakvarium aquarium and a small maritime museum containing a number of boat engines. The town also claims to have one of the highest proportions of art galleries per capita in Europe and, if you can't stand the thought of being without your golf clubs for more than a few days, there's an 18-hole golf course. Drøbak is an hour's bus ride south of Oslo.  
europe_paris_activities.html:  Activities  Water enthusiasts are well catered for in Paris - there are around 30 swimming pools and the Aquaboulevard water park, too. And, among uniquely Parisian activities, it's hard to beat drifting lazily down the Seine (or the Marne, the Oise or any of the city's canals) in a canal boat. (Rentals are available year-round.) Be it on tarmac or slippery ice, Paris has discovered skating in a big way. In winter the Patinoire du Parvis de la Defense and Patinoire de l'H tel de Ville bring ice skating into the public arena. When it comes to aerobics, weight training and so on, gyms and fitness clubs are a penny a barrel. One of the best bowling alleys in Paris, Bowling de Paris, can be found in the Bois de Boulogne. If this isn't enough, Paris' weekly entertainment pamphlets, Pariscope and L'Officiel des Spectacles, list up-to-date information in French on every imaginable outdoor activity. Look for listings on randonnees pedestres (hiking in groups), cyclisme (biking), escalade (rock climbing), plus parachuting, canoeing, squash, tennis and more.  
europe_paris_attractions.html:  Attractions  This enormous building, constructed around 1200 as a fortress and rebuilt in the mid-16th century for use as a royal palace, began its career as a public museum in 1793. As part of Mitterand's grands projets in the 1980s, the Louvre was revamped, with the addition of a 21m (67ft) glass pyramid entrance. Initially deemed a failure, the new design has since won over those who regard consistency as inexcusably boring. Vast scrums of people puff and pant through the rooms full of paintings, sculptures and antiquities, including the Mona Lisa, Venus de Milo and Winged Victory (which looks like it's been dropped and put back together). If the clamour becomes unbearable, your best bet is to pick a period or section of the Louvre and pretend that the rest is somewhere across town.  
europe_paris_facts.html:  When to Go  Like the old song says, Paris is at its best in springtime (March to May), with autumn coming in a close second. In winter, there are all sorts of cultural events to tempt the visitor, but school holidays can clog the streets with the little folk. August is usually hot and sticky, and it's also when many Parisians take their yearly vacations, so businesses are likely to be closed.     Events  Most museums and shops are closed on France's jours feries (public holidays). When a holiday falls on a Tuesday or Thursday, expect to see a lot of shuttered storefronts on that Monday or Friday as well. The doors of banks are good places to check for announcements of long holiday weekends.  France's national day, 14 July, commemorates the 1789 storming of the Bastille prison, the event that kicked off the French Revolution. Across the country, the holiday is celebrated with serious abandon, especially in Paris, where the day ends with a massive fireworks display and throngs of people in the streets.   Public Holidays: 1 January - New Year's Day late March or April - Easter Sunday, Easter Monday 1 May - May Day 8 May - Victory in Europe Day May (40th day after Easter) - Ascension Thursday 7th Sunday after Easter - Pentecost/Whit Sunday 7th Monday after Easter - Whit Monday 14 July - Bastille Day 15 August - Assumption Day 1 November - All Saints' Day 11 November - Armistice Day/Remembrance Day 25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to ParisTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_paris_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The relatively small region surrounding Paris - known as the le de France (Island of France) - was where the kingdom of France began its 12th-century expansion. Today, it's a popular day-trip destination for Parisians and Paris-based visitors. Among the region's many attractions are woodlands ideal for hiking, skyscrapered districts endowed with sleekly functional architecture, the much-maligned EuroDisney, elegant historical towns and Versailles, the country's former political capital and seat of the royal court. The latter is the site of the Ch teau de Versailles, the grandest and most famous palace in France. Built in the mid-1600s during the reign of Louis XIV, the chateau is a keen reminder of just how much one massive ego and a nation's wealth could buy in days of old (eat your heart out, Bill Gates). Apart from grand halls, bedchambers, gardens, ponds and fountains too elaborate to discuss, there's also a 75m (250ft) Hall of Mirrors, where nobles dressed like ninnies could watch each other dancing.  
europe_poland_activities.html:  Activities   Hiking is the most popular of outdoor activities, and not without reason. The most popular hiking routes are those in the Tatra Mountains but the Pieniny, the Bieszczady or the Karkonosze are all options. Canoeing is possible on most waterways, though the main rivers are pretty polluted. The Krutynia and Czarna Hancza rivers, both in Masuria, are almost untouched and have some of the best kayaking in the country. The Masurian lakes are ideal for sailing and, not surprisingly, they are crowded with hundreds of boats in summer. It's possible to hire a sailing boat in Gizycko, Mikolajki or several other Masurian resorts. Poland has about a thousand caves, mostly in the uplands near Krak w and in the Tatra Mountains. For those unwilling to plunge into uncharted blackness, a handful of caves are adapted for the spatially-sane. The most spectacular of these are the Bear's Cave near Klodzko and the Paradise Cave near Kielce. Skiing is mostly concentrated in the Carpathians. Zakopane at the foot of the Tatra Mountains is without a doubt ski bunny warren numero uno, with Szczyrk in the Beskid Slaski also popular.  
europe_poland_attractions.html:  Attractions  Although founded late in Polish history (at the beginning of the 14th century), centrally located Warsaw has been Poland's capital on and off since 1611. Long a cultural and industrial centre, Warsaw was one of central Europe's most beautiful and sophisticated cities until it scooped the prize for worst-ravaged in WW II. Warsaw is essentially a postwar product in both appearance and spirit. Its handful of historic oases have been meticulously reconstructed, but most of the urban landscape is modern. This new face of Warsaw is impressive for the resolve with which it emerged, if not for its Stalinist edifices and uninspired prefab concrete suburbs.  The city is divided by the Vistula River into two very different parts. The western, left-bank sector includes the city centre proper and the Old Town to the north. Almost all attractions, as well as the lion's share of tourist facilities, are on this side of the river. The right-bank part of Warsaw, the suburb of Praga, has no major sights and hardly ever sees tourists.  The Old Town was rebuilt from the foundations up because after the war it was nothing but a heap of rubble. The monumental reconstruction, which took place between 1949 and 1963, aimed at restoring the appearance of the town in its best times, the 17th and 18th centuries. Every authentic architectural fragment found among the ruins was incorporated in the restoration. In 1945, the Old Town Square was just the walls of two houses sticking out of the rubble, today it is a harmonious blend of Renaissance, Baroque and Gothic elements. It's alive and atmospheric, doesn't feel contrived, and is replete with open-air cafes and art stalls. The Historical Museum of Warsaw occupies the entire northern side of the square and screens a startling documentary about the destruction and reconstruction of the city, as well as displaying its charmingly presented collections from Warsaw's earlier history.  Warsaw's main north-south boulevard is the Royal Way, running from the Royal Castle to Lazienki Palace, the royal summer residence. This is one of Europe's grandest stretches of road, with churches, palaces, galleries and museums lining the route. Halfway down, point your nose east, quash your aesthetic sensibilities and bustle towards the drab and repellent exterior of the National Museum to enter a treasure house of art from ancient to contemporary, the highlight being an impressive collection of frescoes from an early Christian cathedral in Pharos, Sudan, dating from between the 8th and 12th centuries. There's also an amazing display of Coptic crosses.  Warsaw offers a wide variety of ethnic cuisines and you can eat and drink late into the night. There's an extensive and swiftly growing array of restaurants all over the Old Town serving traditional Polish and international food. Student clubs along the southern portion of Royal Way offer a variety of cultural activities, including recitals, poetry, cinema, theatre, and rock, folk and jazz concerts, but weekend nights are usually reserved for discos.  Cheap places to stay are scattered throughout the city, sometimes a long way from the centre, and usually lacking in style and atmosphere. There are a couple of good hostels near the university though, and private rooms are available through agencies (ask at the information centre opposite the Royal Castle). There is a small camping ground near the central bus terminal.  As Poland's capital, Warsaw is a busy terminus for flights, trains and buses, both domestic and international. The main train station is centrally located, the bus station is just west of the city centre, and the airport is on the southern outskirts of the city, about 10km from the centre.  
europe_poland_environment.html:  Environment  Poland is roughly square, reaching a maximum of about 680km from west to east and 650km from north to south. It's bordered by the Baltic Sea to the north-west, by Germany to the west, the Czech and Slovak republics to the south and Ukraine, Belarus, Lithuania and Russia to the east. The northern part of Poland is varied and gently undulating, relatively well forested and covered by several thousand postglacial lakes. The flat central belt is the main agricultural area, watered by Poland's longest river, the Vistula, which, like all Poland's rivers, runs towards the north, draining into the Baltic Sea. Moving south, the terrain rises, culminating in the west with the Sudeten Mountains and to the east with the Carpathian Mountains which run along the southern frontier. The highest peak is Mt Rysy (2499m) in the Carpathian's Tatra Mountains, Poland's alpine range.  Forests cover just over a quarter of Poland's territory, and are populated by hare, deer and wild boar, mostly in duplexes. Some brown bears and wildcats live in the mountain forests and elks can be found in the woods of the far north-east. Several hundred European bison, brought to the brink of extinction early this century, live in the Bialowieza National Park. Airborne creatures have proved more resilient in urbanised and polluted Europe, as a cursory glance at the Polish sky will attest. Storks, which build their nests on the roofs and chimneys of the houses in the countryside are much loved. Poland's national parks are scattered evenly throughout the country, with a concentration in the mountainous regions of the south-east. 'Landscape parks' can be found throughout Poland; these are scenic regions but not so strictly preserved.  Poland's climate is influenced by a continental climate from the east and a maritime climate from the west. As a result, the weather is changeable, with significant differences from day to day and from year to year. Winter one year can be almost without snow, whereas another year heavy snows can paralyse transport for days. Generally, central Poland is the driest, while the mountains receive much more rain (and snow in winter). Summer is usually warm and the most pleasant time to visit, but the plentiful sunshine is interspersed with heavy rains.  
europe_poland_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of most EU countries and the USA can enter Poland without a visa and stay for 90 days. Australians still need visas. Border laws are being liberalised so check with a Polish Embassy before you leave.Health risks: Substandard hospital care, especially in rural areasTime:GMT/UTC plus one hourElectricity: 220 volts, 50 Hz ACWeights & measures: MetricTourism:8 million visitors per year When to Go  The tourist season runs roughly from May to September, peaking in July and August. At this time the Baltic beaches are taken over by swarms of humanity, resorts and spas are invaded by tourists, Masurian lakes are crowded with thousands of sailboats, and mountains can hardly be seen for walkers. Perhaps the best time to come is either late spring (mid-May to June) or the turn of summer and autumn (September to mid-October). These are pleasantly warm periods and there are plenty of cultural activities going on. During winter it's cold and dark (as you'd expect) and many camp sites and hostels are closed, but its still a good time for visiting Poland's cities.     Events  With a strongly Roman Catholic population, Christian celebrations are of huge importance. This is particularly evident at Christmas and Easter, but any Sunday is a good Sunday for getting a taste of Polish devoutness and religious fervour. All the churches (and they are truly in good supply) fill up beyond their capacity during the Sunday masses.  Among the musical highlights, Krak w hosts the Music in Old Krak w Festival every August, and Wroclaw follows in September with the Wratislavia Cantans, replete with oratorios and cantatas. Warsaw is a thriving cultural centre, with contemporary music showcases in autumn, including jazz in late October. The Warsaw Theatre Meetings in January review the achievements of the best Polish theatres over the past year. The Polish Film Festival in Gdynia in November is the foremost presentation of Poland on celluloid.  Small local feasts, fairs and contests, often dependent upon local folklore, occur throughout Poland, with a pleasing glut in early summer and early autumn.    
europe_poland_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Two hundred kilometres south of Gdansk, Torun is the birthplace of Copernicus, the man who 'stopped the sun and moved the earth'. It's a beautiful town dating back to the 13th century when the Teutonic Knights set about transforming it into one of their early outposts. The town became a Hanseatic port in the 1280s, garnering wealth which spurred the construction of the elegant Gothic buildings you can see today. If you spend a few days wandering around munching on the local gingerbread your only problem will be OD-ing on picture-postcard perfection.  
europe_portugal_activities.html:  Activities  Water sports such as swimming, snorkelling, windsurfing and big-game fishing are popular along the Algarve Coast, while surfing is big along the west coast. With advance notice, organisations can also provide a weekend of canyoning and hydrospeed near Porto. Southern Portugal is dense with championship-standard golf courses. Other activities include mountain biking, hiking and pony trekking in the Serra da Estrela and Peneda-Ger s regions.  
europe_portugal_attractions.html:  Attractions  Lisbon (Lisboa), the country's capital, stands breezily on the banks of the Rio Tejo. The city's low skyline, unpretentious atmosphere and pleasant blend of architectural styles conspire to make it a favourite with many visitors. Orientation is fairly straightforward - apart from the puff required to negotiate the hills - with most of the daily activity centred in the lower part of the city.  A clear choice for Lisbon's finest attraction is the Mosteiro dos Jer nimos. Construction began about 1502 and was completed towards the end of the century. It survived a great earthquake in 1755, and is today the principal remnant of Manueline architecture found in the city. Nearby is the Torre de Belem, a Manueline-style tower which stands in the Rio Tejo, and is probably the most photographed monument in Portugal.  Lisbon has a number of attractive museums, including the Museu Nacional do Azulejo, which contains superb displays of decorative tiles; the Museu Nacional de Arte Antiga, which houses the national collection of works by Portuguese painters; and the immense Museu Calouste Gulbenkian, considered the finest museum in Portugal, with exhibits of paintings, sculptures, carpets, coins and ceramics from around the world.  Other places of interest are the districts of Baixa and Alfama. Here you'll find some of the city's oldest and most rewarding sights: anarchic cobbled streets, squares and alleys; markets and craftspeople; and colourful buildings and brooding castles.  Lisbon has a wide range of budget accommodation and cheap eateries, mostly found in the central parts of the city. Lisbon's nightlife is boisterous, and includes drinking in bars, raving at discos, bopping to jazz and African rhythms or puzzling over fado. Local soccer matches and bullfights are the biggest daylit thrills.  
europe_portugal_environment.html:  Environment  Portugal lies immediately west of Spain, and is buffeted along its southern coast by the Atlantic Ocean. To its west and southwest lie the islands of the Azores and Madeira, far out in the Atlantic. It measures just 350mi (560km) north to south and a paltry 135mi (220km) from east to west. The northern and central regions are heavily populated and characterised by rivers, valleys, forests and mountains - the highest range is the Serra da Estrela, peaking at Torre (6540ft/1993m). The south is less populated and, apart from the rocky backdrop of the Algarve, much flatter and drier.  The lush landscape of the north is rich viticultural country but also features corn, potato and rye. The central and southern regions are less green, yet they support corn oaks, olive groves, vineyards, and orange and fig trees, and are a delight in spring when the almond blossoms are in full bloom.  Portugal's climate is temperate. The country is generally warm from April to October, though somewhat less so in the north, while the southern region of Algarve can experience uncomfortably hot temperatures in midsummer. During winter, the north receives plenty of rain and temperatures can be chilly. Snowfall is common in the mountains, particularly the Serra da Estrela range.  
europe_portugal_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: None required for EU nationals. Nationals of Canada, New Zealand, Australia and the USA can stay for 90 days visa-free. Everyone else needs a visa.Health risks: Sunburn in summer, insect bitesTime: GMT/UTC (winter), GMT/UTC+1 (summer)Electricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Portugal's climate is temperate, and you'll find agreeable weather just about everywhere (except in the Alto Douro and the Alentejo where summers can be painfully hot and droughts common) from April to October, and nearly year-round in the Algarve. Overall the wettest season is from November to March: the soggiest regions are in the extreme north and in the Serra da Estrela mountain region in the country's centre. The ski season is from January to March but February is best. Peak tourist season is roughly from mid-June to September, except in the Algarve where it really only quiets down in the dead of winter. Carnaval and Easter are two holidays celebrated with gusto all over the country and are worth going out of your way for.     Events  Portugal abounds with romarias (religious pilgrimages), festas (festivals) and feiras (fairs) which bring whole towns to a standstill. At the core of many are religious processions. The further north you go, the more traditional and less touristy these celebrations get. Carnaval is one of the biggest events, featuring partying, parading and painted faces about six weeks before Easter. There are vast and colourful processions during Braga's Easter or Holy Week Festival. The Festa de S o Jo o in June is biggest in Porto where everyone dances through the streets, amicably hitting each other over the head with leeks. The Feira de S o Martinho (Goleg , November) showcases all manner of horses, riding contests and bullfights.   Public Holidays  New Years Day - 1st January Carnaval Tuesday - February/March - day before Ash Wednesday Good Friday - March/April Liberty Day - 25 April - celebrating 1974 revolution Labour Day - 1 May Corpus Christi May/June - ninth Thursday after Easter Portugal Day 10 June - also known as Cam es & the Communities Day Feast of the Assumption - 15 August Republic Day - 5 October - commemorating 1910 declaration of Portuguese Republic All Saints' Day - 1 November Independence Day - 1 December - commemorating 1640 restoration of independence from Spain Feast of the Immaculate Conception - 8 December Christmas Day 25 Decemberback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to PortugalTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_portugal_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This wilderness park in the far north of Portugal, near the Spanish border, has spectacular scenery and a wide variety of flora and fauna. It's extremely popular with Portuguese day-trippers and holidaymakers, but they tend to stick to the main camping areas, leaving the rest of the park to hikers. There are plenty of good short-distance trails with places to swim along the way, as well as facilities for horse riding, mountain biking and canoe rental.  
europe_prague_activities.html:  Activities  For a full list of Prague's sports halls and complexes, pick up a copy of Welcome to Prague or Prague This Month, available at many tourist offices.  For folks visiting Prague in the warmer months, there are plenty of outdoor activities. Whether you stroll through the greenbelt atop Petrin Hill or rent a bicycle to test the cobblestones downtown, you can always mix sightseeing with exercise. An even more interesting option might be renting a rowboat or pedal-boat to tour the Vlatava River on your own power.  Other ways to sweat it out in the rarified Czech sunshine include swimnming in outdoor Olympic-sized swimming pools, and playing tennis, squash and golf. There is also horseback riding or the Prague International Marathon, which usually runs in late May. In the winter, several parks open ice-skating rinks.  And if the weather doesn't suit your tastes, there are always fitness centers (check at larger hotels), indoor pools, and many other indoor options, such as bowling and billiards.  
europe_prague_attractions.html:  Attractions  Prague Castle (Prazsky Hrad, or just hrad to the Czechs) may be the largest ancient castle in the world - 570m (1870ft) long, an average of 128m (420ft) wide and occupying 7.28 hectares (18 acres). It's the most popular tourist attraction in Prague, but at least there's plenty of room to spread out.  The castle has been the seat of Czech government since Prince Borivoj founded the first fortified settlement here in the 9th century, though current president V clav Havel has chosen to live in his smaller (and less touristed) home on the outskirts of the city.  Some of the complex's highlights, like the Spanish Hall and Rudolf Gallery, are only open one Saturday a year (usually in early May). The rest of the castle's collection of architectural and artistic marvels, created over the course of the last millennium, are on exhibit.  The most popular edifices include Gothic St Vitius Cathedral (1344), its rich decorations epitomized by the glittering Chapel of St Wenceslas; the Old Royal Palace (1135) and its jousting and coronation hall, still used for the swearing in of new presidents; and the Royal Garden (1569), where homesick Hapsburgs surrounded their badminton courts with beautiful flowers and striking Italian Renaissance residences.  Don't miss Prague Castle's less famous attractions, such as the network of tunnels the communist government built in 1950 for easy access to the bomb shelters. Other interesting artifacts include the Battling Titans statues (1767-70; Ignac Platzer), which oversee the hourly changing of the guards, and the Toy Museum, featuring one of the world's largest collections, with items dating back to ancient Greece.  
europe_prague_facts.html:  When to Go  While attractions across most of the Czech Republic are closed or keep limited hours outside the summer season, Prague caters to visitors throughout the year. The city is now one of Europe's most popular tourist destinations, and the summer crowds - as well as those that form around the Christmas and Easter holidays - are worth avoiding. Czechs tend to vacation in July and August, when bottom-end accommodation actually increases, as student hostels are opened to visitors.  If you can stand the cold - the winter temperature usually hovers around freezing, though -20 C (-4 F) days are not unknown - and periodic smog alerts, hotel space is plentiful in winter (outside the Christmas/New Year holidays) and Prague is gorgeous under a mantle of snow.     Events  Prague has a year-round calendar of cultural riches on offer, with music predominating. The jewel in the crown is the Prague Spring international music festival (12 May-4 June), with classical music concerts in theatres, churches and historic buildings. Other musical interludes include Music Ecumenica (early April), which celebrates spiritual music; Musica Sacra Praga (mid-April and October), which features sacred music in various concert halls and churches; the Festival of Chamber Music (May); the Open-Air Opera Festival (July-August); the Verdi Festival (August-September); Prague Autumn (September), an international music festival; Mozart v Praze (October); the Lucerne International Jazz Festival (October) and Musica Iudaica (October-November), a festival of Jewish music. Phew! If music's not your scene, visit in January, when Febiofest, an international film, television and video festival, is on; June, when Tanec Praha, a modern dance festival, limbers up; or July-September, when the Prague Folk Festival takes place.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day March/April - Easter Monday 1 May - Labour Day 8 May - Liberation Day 5 July - SS Cyril & Methodius Day 6 July - Jan Hus Day 28 September - Czech Statehood Day 28 October - Independence Day 17 November - Struggle for Freedom and Democracy Day 24 December - 'Generous Day', Christmas Eve 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - St Stephen's Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to PragueTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_prague_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Karlstejn Castle, a 35-minute train ride from Prague's Smichov station, is unquestionably the most photogenic castle in the Prague region. It's also the most visited castle in the Czech Republic - get there early to beat the busloads of tourists angling for that postcard-perfect snap.  The castle was founded by Charles IV as a royal hideaway and a treasury for the crown jewels and various holy relics. Perched on a scenic crag above the Berounka River, its 19th-century remodeling job did nothing to compromise the handsome facade. Top drawcards include the audience hall and imperial bedroom, in the south-facing palace; Marian Tower, with Charles' private quarters and remnants of the lovely frescoes that adorned Charles' private St Catherine Chapel; and the Great Tower, where royal regalia was once kept. The heart of the complex is the lavish Chapel of the Holy Cross, with more golden gilt, semiprecious stones and priceless panels by famed painter Master Theodoric than you can shake a scepter at.  Nearby is the Karlstejn Wax Museum, focusing on merchants from the Middle Ages, and the Museum of Nativity Scenes, featuring the baby Jesus rendered in everything from sheet metal to sugar.  
europe_reykjavik_activities.html:  Activities  Iceland's capital is the place to garner equipment and supplies before setting off into the wilderness to camp, hike, bike or ski, or alternatively to fork out some cash to a private company to do all the organising for you. Within the city limits, your active choices include sports like squash and bowling. There are a number of swimming pools, the biggest being the Laugardalur pool, where you can also occupy a jacuzzi, solarium, steam or mud bath, or a waterslide. Runners will want to condition themselves for a trip to Reykjavik in August, when the city puts on a marathon, a half-marathon and several shorter fun runs within a few weeks of each other.  Perhaps not surprisingly in a city where darkness rules over much of winter, indoor diversions are very popular. The main shopping district is along the thoroughfare of Laugavegur, from Lækjargata eastwards to the Hlemmur bus terminal; there's another cash-sucking strip along Austurstræti. There are plenty of cafes, discos and pubs scattered across the Old Town; drinking and dancing establishments usually stay open until 1am on weekdays and as late as 4am on weekends.  
europe_reykjavik_attractions.html:  Attractions  In case you can't recognise it from its aged buildings and sense of order (in contrast to the rapidly changing outskirts of New Reykjavik), it may pay to know that the Icelandic capital's Old Town is bound by Tjörn, Lækjargata, the residential area of Seltjarnarnes and the touristy shop-filled environs of the city's harbour district. Right in the middle is Austurvöllur, once the bustling Old Town Square and now a subdued and grassy park. Another of the area's grandeur-shy historical assets is D mkirkja, a fairly unremarkable but nonetheless significant stone structure built by a Danish king in 1796 to mark the Lutheran-inspired removal of the Catholic bishoprics. At the more recent end of the historical spectrum is the confrontingly postmodern R h s (City Hall), a prominent - some locals would argue far-too-prominent - building that opened its doors to Reykjavik's administrators and information-hungry tourists in 1992.  In his capacity as the secretary of Copenhagen's Royal Archives, rni Magn sson spent a decade from 1702 dashing around Iceland collecting vellum (calfskin or lambskin treated for use as a writing surface) dating from a 13th-century period known as the Saga Age. A fire in 1728 destroyed most of his collection, but the survivors have been on display since 1971 in Reykjavk's  rni Magn sson Institute - the best-known of these epic tales of romance and drama is Nj ls Saga. Another Magn sson (Sk li) was responsible for building the F getinn, a 1752 weaving shed that is now the city's oldest building. The Kolaporti Flea Marketis the country's largest, open from Friday through Sunday and dispensing everything from cheap clothes, secondhand books and domestic knick-knacks to items that only have the appearance of a bargain.  
europe_reykjavik_facts.html:  When to Go  The official Icelandic tourist season is a summer-long affair lasting from June until the end of August, a period when the region's midnight sun keeps full dark at bay. What passes for a tourist crowd in this frigid neck of the world is much smaller outside of these months, and you'll find much of the tourist infrastructure (particularly outside Reykjav k) in hibernation, fro the rest of the year. Shuttered-up hotels, non-attended campgrounds, suspended bus transport and closed or limited-hour museums are the norm outside these summer months. That said, the capital retains some semblance of activity even in the deepest depths of winter, the highpoints being its joyfully excessive Christmas festivities and the spectacular (and free) light show known as the aurora borealis. The costs of accommodation, food, transport and entertainment are also less in winter though ultimately this doesn't mean much as prices in Iceland are among the highest in Europe anyway. Fans of the light would do well to remember that by the end of December the polar night is well and truly in control, and Reykjavik experiences a mere two hours of sunlight (more correctly twilight) each day.  In terms of climate, the good news is that unlike the country's interior, coastal areas are saved from unrelenting sub-zero temperatures thanks to the warm waters of the Gulf Stream. The bad news is that 'Gulf Stream plus polar seas plus neighbouring mountains' equals 'lots of grey skies and rain'. Adding to the anti-climatic misery are frequent storms, fog and drizzle, plus an almost constant wind that underlines the year-round chill factor. Reykjavik's average daily midsummer temperature is 10 C (50 F); midwinter sees a daily average of around -1 C (30 F).     Events  The Christian Lent celebrations that precede Easter are undertaken in Reykjavik in traditional Icelandic style, with Sprengidagur (Shrove Tuesday) marked by the loud slurping of pea soup and salted mutton instead of confection or fast foods. Local delicacies also dominate during February's  orrabl t, originally a Norse feast and still a valid excuse to overconsume. When Sj mannadagurinn (Sailors' Day) rolls around in the first week of June, every pair of sea legs in the country gets to take a day off to toast themselves with a glass or two of brenniv n ('burnt wine'), a schnapps-style drink also known as svarti dau i or 'black death'. Independence Day, a commemoration of when Iceland wriggled out from beneath the regal Danish thumb on June 17, 1944, sparks the country's biggest festival, with lots of parades, outdoor concerts, dancing and old-fashioned costumes on display. The first day of summer is officially at the start of June, but the citizens of Reykjavik let their anticipation get the better of them and stage a carnival to celebrate Sumardagurinn Fyrsti well ahead of schedule in late April. More partying takes place on the nightless Midsummer Night on June 24, as well as in early August when people flock to camping grounds around the island to fire up barbecues and sing boozy renditions of folk songs for Verslunarmannahelgi.    
europe_reykjavik_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Vi ey (Wood) Island is a small but potent historical site only 1km (0.6mi) northeast of Reykjavik, just clear of Sundahöfn Harbour. Originally piled up by volcanic action, it's thought that this 3km-long (1.9mi-long) sliver of rock was part of the land package claimed in the late-ninth century by Iceland's first official settler - Ing lfur Arnarson - and that it subsequently played host to a significant Augustinian monastery from 1226 until 1539. The island is also the site of Iceland's oldest original building, Vi eyjarstofa, built from basalt and sandstone in 1755 to be the residence of local sheriff Sk li Magn sson. Twenty years later saw the consecration of Iceland's second-oldest church, which has retained its original interior fittings.  Visitors can also explore the remains of a fort called Virki v and the weathered schoolhouse that is all that's left of an old Sundbakki Village on the island's southern tip. More-natural attractions include  Parad shellir (Paradise Cave), a pint-sized grotto with a fanciful name, and the beautiful basalt columns of Vesturey. Getting to Vi ey Island entails a five-minute ferry trip from Sundahöfn Harbour, which is just north of the outer-eastern suburb of Laugardalur.  
europe_romania_activities.html:  Activities  The Carpathian Mountains offer boundless opportunities for hiking, the most popular areas being the Fagaras and Bucegi ranges, respectively west and south of Brasov. Clearly marked trails traverse most Romanian mountain ranges and lower-lying foothills. The Carpathians also offer some of the cheapest skiing in Europe, the most famous resorts being Sinaia and Poiana Brasov. Sinaia offers the most challenging skiing, while Poiana Brasov is popular with snowboarders and has the best developed ski school. Romania has some fabulous caves, but many are not open to the public. Those serious about the sport can arrange to go caving by contacting local caving clubs for permission to enter them. Climbing and mountain biking are also popular, along with more tranquil activities like trainspotting and self-pampering in spas around Eforie Nord and Baile Felix. Animal lovers can watch bears and wolves in the Carpathians and birds in the Danube Delta.  
europe_romania_attractions.html:  Attractions  Romania's capital - named after its legendary founder, a shepherd called Bucur - lies on the Wallachian plains, between the Carpathian foothills and the Danube River. In the 1930s it was known as 'the Paris of the East'. Since then, earthquakes, WWII bombing and Ceausescu have combined to destroy much of its prewar beauty.  In the 1980s Ceausescu bulldozed 7000 homes and 26 churches in historic southern Bucharest to build a Civic Centre. The focal point of what locals dubbed 'Ceausima' is the enormous 12-storey Palace of Parliament, intended to be the largest building in the world - it's actually the second, after the Pentagon. Ceausescu - who was executed just as it neared completion - intended it to house the president's office, central committee and all the state ministries. The Iliescu government did not know what to do with this white elephant - many people wanted it demolished - but in 1994 decided to use it to house the Parliament and to host international conferences. There are guided tours, so you'll get a chance to gawp at the ornate 3100-room interior as well as the mesmerising exterior.  For a taste of the old, head for central Bucharest, where the 16th-century Old Court Church contains beautifully preserved frescoes. The George Enescu Museum displays the musician's manuscripts and personal belongings. Also here is Romania's very own Raffles, the Athenee Palace Hotel, centre of early-20th-century decadence, and the meeting place of Olivia Manning's characters in The Balkan Trilogy. It has just had a US$50 million facelift and is the city's classiest and most expensive hotel.  In western Bucharest you'll find Ghencea Civil Cemetery, final resting place of the Ceausescus. Nicolae's grave is quite ornate and decorated with flowers and candles, but Elena is apparently less revered by those who still mourn their overthrow. Their son Nicu (Transylvania boss, drunkard, playboy and one-time partner of the Romanian gymnast Nadia Comaneci) is buried close by.  Bucharest offers a wide range of accommodation options, including private rooms, university campuses, hostels and hotels. The main places are in the centre or around the main train station (Gara de Nord). Bucharest has seen a rapid influx of flashy, upmarket, expensive restaurants offering international cuisine, but it is still easy to track down traditional Romanian cooking in central Bucharest. This area is also the focal point for nightlife: you'll find plenty of entertainment here, including bars, nightclubs, theatres and cinemas.  
europe_romania_environment.html:  Environment  Oval-shaped Romania is the largest Eastern European country apart from Russia and Ukraine. It lies on the Black Sea and, moving clockwise from the south, shares borders with Bulgaria, Yugoslavia (Serbia), Hungary, Ukraine and Moldova. The forested Carpathian Mountains account for one third of the country's area; another third is covered by hills and tablelands full of orchards and vineyards; and the final third comprises a fertile plain where cereals, vegetables and herbs are grown.  If people didn't prosper under Ceausescu, bears did! He allowed no one but himself to hunt them, the result being that the Carpathian mountains are now home to 60% of Europe's bears. Some 40% of Europe's wolves and 35% of its lynx also live there, along with stag, wild boar, badger, deer, fox, and the green woodpecker, jay and grey owl. Romania's main drawcard for twitchers is the Danube Delta, home to 60% of the world's small pygmy cormorant population, the white grey egret, bee-keeper and white-tailed eagle. Half the world's population of red-breasted geese winter here. The protected delta has the largest unbroken reed bed in the world. The Carpathian mountains boast the least spoilt forests in Europe, rich in beech, sycamore, maple, poplar and birch. Some 1350 floral species have been recorded in the Carpathians, including the yellow poppy, Transylvanian columbine, saxifrage and edelweiss. Romania has 13 national parks, including the Retezat Mountains in the Carpathians, and more than 500 protected areas.  You don't go to Romania for the weather. The average annual temperature is 11 C in the south and on the coast, but only 2 C in the mountains. Romanian winters can be extremely cold and foggy, with lots of snow from December to April. In summer there's usually hot, sunny weather on the Black Sea coast. The majority of Romania's rain falls in the spring, with the mountains getting the most, the Danube Delta the least.  
europe_romania_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: EU and US citizens with valid passports have the luxury of being able to visit Romania visa-free for 30 days. All other Western visitors need a visa, obtainable in advance at a Romanian embassy or upon entry to Romania.Health risks: Rabies, typhoid and encephalitis are present in Romania; vaccinations should be considered.Time:GMT/UTC plus 2 hours (a further hour ahead in summer)Electricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 2.83 million visitors per year When to Go  May and June are the best months to visit, followed by September and early October. At these times, you can visit the medieval painted monasteries in southern Bucovina, and enjoy them minus the tourist hordes. Spring and autumn are also the best times for birdwatching in the Danube Delta. Romania has harsh winters, when tourism is centred on the ski resorts like Poiana Brasov and Sinaia. Snow lingers as late as mid-May, and the hiking season doesn't begin in earnest till June. The resorts along the Black Sea coast start filling up in late June and stay packed until mid-August.     Events  Romania has a juicy calendar of folklore festivals. Numerous smaller ones remain unpublicised, preserving their authenticity but making them very difficult for the traveller to attend. Regular festivals include the Whit Sunday Szekely Pilgrimage, the largest traditional Szekely folk and religious festival of the year, in Miercurea Ciuc. The Fundata Fair, a traditional folklore fair originally held for shepherds to meet their future wives, is at Fundata near Bran in June. July sees International Chamber Music Festival concerts in Brasov and Bran. In August is Medieval Days, a two week medieval arts, crafts and music festival in Sighisoara, and the Hora de la Prislop, a wild dancing festival on the Prislop Pass. The Sambra oilor is a major pastoral festival to mark the coming down of the sheep from the mountains, held in and around Bran in September, and in December there's the De la Colind la Stea Christmas festival in Brasov.    
europe_romania_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Fagaras Mountains, in the centre of Romania, form part of the Carpathians and stretch for some 75km (47mi) south of the main Brasov-Sibiu road. The mountains are peppered with more than 40 glacial lakes, the highest of which is Lake Mioarele at 2282m (7484ft). The famed Trans-Fagarasan Highway cuts through the Balea Valley across the mountains from north to south, a mountain pass which is said to be the highest road in Europe. The Balea tunnel, cutting between Romania's highest mountains - Mount Negoiu (2535m; 8314ft) and Mount Moldoveanu (2543m; 8341ft) - is 845m (2771ft) long. The Fagaras Mountains offer the most spectacular hiking in the country, with well marked trails and an abundance of wildlife. The main drawback is the difficulty in getting there. The trailheads are 8km (5mi) to 15km (9mi) south of most train stations along the Brasov-Sibiu line, and the region is poorly serviced by bus. The main access point to the trails is Victoria, which you reach by getting off at the train halt 7km (4mi) north at Ucea. If you have a car, follow the Trans-Fagarasan Highway to Poienari Castle, just over the border in Wallachia. This was built for Vlad Tepes, and is regarded by Dracula buffs as the real McCoy. You climb 1480 steps to reach it from the side of a hydroelectric power plant below.  
europe_rome_activities.html:  Activities  Rome's activities (apart from the mandatory sight-seeing) usually involve nothing more strenuous than eating, drinking and listening to good music. Conceivably you could work up a sweat running up and down the Spanish Steps; it's just that everyone will get excited thinking you're chasing a pickpocket. If you're with kids or just a child at heart, there are pony rides and Sunday Punch & Judy shows on Gianicolo Hill, a short walk southeast of the Holy City. If you're sore from foot-slogging from one monument to the next, reward yourself by escaping to the relaxing thermal springs mentioned in Dante's Divine Comedy. They're near Viterbo, 90km (55mi) north of Rome.  Otherwise, there are a few serious fitness options. You can swim, either at the beaches on the Lazio coast, or if you can't be bothered going that far, at a hotel pool, or at a stretch, one of the public swimming pools - but these can be hard to get to, are expensive, have varying opening hours and some even require a doctor's certificate before you can swim. You can rent bicycles and cycle near the Porta Pinciana in Villa Borghese. Villa Doria Pamphili, 2km (1mi) south of the Vatican, is the largest park in Rome and a lovely spot for a jog or gentle stroll. Horse riding is available at the exclusive Il Galoppatoio equestrian club in Villa Borghese, but exclusivity costs money, lots of it.  
europe_rome_attractions.html:  Attractions  The commercial, political and religious centre of ancient Rome, the Forum spreads along the valley floor between the Capitoline and Palatine hills. It was constructed over about 900 years, with Republican buildings sitting in juxtaposition with temples from the Imperial era. The site's disrepair and disintegration into pastureland mirrored the fall of the Roman Empire, and excavations have been underway since the 18th century.  The Forum is entered from the piazza leading from the Colosseum - that house of horrors cum marble quarry, also known as the Flavian Amphitheatre. You immediately enter another world: the past. Columns rise from grassy hillocks, and repositioned pediments and columns aid the work of the imagination. Just some of the many must-sees include the Arch of Septimus Severus, the Temple of Saturn, the House of the Vestals, the Temple of Antoninus & Faustina and the Arch of Titus.  From the Forum, you can climb the Palatino - where the wealthy and powerful built their palaces and personal temples. A layer of medieval churches and Renaissance gardens and villas transformed the hilltop ruins into a magical, ivy- and agapanthus-covered land of grottos and secret vistas. Look out for the House of Livia, the Domus Augustana, the Palace of the Flavians and the ruins of the Baths of Septimus Severus. You can look down on ruins of the Circus Maximus, though not much remains of what was once a chariot racetrack that held more than 200,000 spectators.  
europe_rome_facts.html:  When to Go  Rome's mild climate makes it visitable year-round; however, spring and autumn are without doubt the best times to visit, with generally sunny skies and mild temperatures (although late autumn, November, can be rainy). Unfortunately, these times are also the peak tourist season, when the tour buses pour in and tourists are herded around like cattle. July and August are unpleasantly hot, and Romans traditionally desert the stiflingly hot city in August, with many businesses closing; try to avoid visiting at this time. From December to February there is briskly cold weather, although it's rarely grey and gloomy.  Events-wise, Italy's calendar bursts year-round with cultural events ranging from colourful traditional celebrations with a religious and/or traditional flavour, through to cultural events. Summer is definitely the best time to visit if you want to catch the best of the festivals; however, the Romaeuropa festival is now a feature of the autumn calendar, the Roma opera season runs from December until June and the classical and contemporary music scene is lively all year round.     Events  During Holy (Easter) Week, Catholics from around the world make pilgrimages to Rome's various basilicas and to the Vatican to hear the Pope give his address. On Good Friday there's a procession of the Cross from the Colosseum to Capitoline Hill.  Testaccio is the place to be in summer, when one of Rome's best-preserved areas becomes a stomping ground for the young and hip. A festival of nightclubbery and general coolness goes down every evening from 10pm. Other summer festivals include Jazz at the Villa Celimontana and tropical music at the Foro Italico. Along the River is held on the north bank of the Tiber throughout July - Rome turns into Los Angeles with beach volleyball, in-line skating and art shows. Trastevere is filled with street theatre, craft stalls and food booths during the Festa di Noantri (20-28 July).   Public holidays 6 January - Epiphany March/April - Easter Monday 25 April - Liberation Day 1 May - Labour Day 29 June - FEast of Sts Peter & Paul 15 August - Feast of the Assumption 1 November - All Saints' Day 8 December - Feast of the Immaculate Conception 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - Feast of Santo Stefanoback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to RomeTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
europe_rome_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  From the 4th century BC until the invasions of the 5th century AD, Ostia was a bustling port city of merchants, sailors and slaves. Situated at the mouth of the Tiber River, the ruins today provide a fascinating glimpse into the lives of the empire's plebs, contrasting with the more up-market ruins at Pompei. Ruins to look out for include the city's entrance, known as the Porta Romana, the Terme di Nettuno baths, the theatre, the mosaic-filled Piazzale delle Corporazioni (merchants' offices), the opulent residence known as Domus Fortuna Annonaria and the well-preserved Casa di Diana, as well as the usual assorted temples, forums and warehouses. Ostia Antica has a good museum, housing statues, mosaics and wall paintings found at the site.  
europe_russia_activities.html:  Activities  Adventure travel in Russia could be the next big thing. You can hook up with adventure travel groups based in many Russian cities and towns. Possibilities include trekking or mountaineering in the Caucasus or the Kola Peninsula; hiking or kayaking in the forests, rivers and lakes of Karelia; bicycling between Moscow and St Petersburg, cross-country and downhill skiing on Europe's highest peak, Mt Elbrus, in the Caucasus; or even a leisurely expedition to the North Pole.  
europe_russia_attractions.html:  Attractions  It may be the capital of the earth's biggest country, but it's not its biggest city. At times it looks like an administrative megalopolis from Alphaville, with monumental slabs of buildings and wide, grey roads. However, it's off these grey thoroughfares that the pre-Stalinised Moscow survives, with golden onion domes peeping through the narrow, winding inner-city streets and the glowing windows that hint at the secret interiors of a million apartment blocks. The most famous attractions include the Kremlin and Red Square.  
europe_russia_environment.html:  Environment  Despite the disintegration of its empire, Russia is still huge - stretching from the borders with Estonia, Latvia, Belarus, Ukraine and Turkey in the west, passing Kazakstan, Mongolia and China, to reach the Pacific Ocean some 6000km later. The landscape is predominantly flat, punctuated only by the Urals, which rise no higher than 1900m, and the more substantial ranges of the Far East. The three major rivers west of the Urals - the Dnepr, Don and Volga - all rise within 400km of Moscow and flow south into the Black and Caspian Seas. Russia's Far East is Siberia, with all its connotations of tundra, steppes, ranges, exile and mindblowing nothingness.  Due to its size, the land passes through several environmental bands. The northern forests of pine and spruce hide reindeer, wolves and brown bears. The mixed deciduous and coniferous forests are home to deer, lynx and the Siberian tiger (which has been known to wander into the suburbs of Vladivostok). The black earth steppes are the grain basket of Asia. Snow leopards, cheetahs, porcupines, gazelles, wild goats and the chamois grace the deserts of Central Asia, though pollution and fur-hunters threaten the existence of many species. There are over 140 state nature reserves, several of whose breeding programs have ensured the continued livelihood of animal species, including the European bison.  Moscow and St Petersburg share similar summer temperatures, both averaging around 24 C. Moscow is frozen by the end of November, with snow remaining until early April, and has an average January temperature of around -12 C. St Petersburg swings between lacking real darkness in summer to having only about five hours of murky light a day in winter. Its average January temperature is a sweltering -8 C. Spring in both cities brings the great thaw, the reappearance of vehicles on the road and a general sense of mayhem. Vladivostok, on Russia's Pacific coast, experiences slightly milder weather than elsewhere in the Russian Far East. Its -13 C winter temperatures seem positively balmy compared to the northeastern town of Oymyakon, which just happens to be the coldest inhabited place on earth. Its winter temperatures drop to -65 C.  
europe_russia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors require a visaHealth risks: Diphtheria, hepatitis A and B, encephalitis, rabies and typhoidTime:There are 11 time zones; Moscow is GMT/UTC +3Electricity: 220V (some 127V still found) 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 7 million visitors per year When to Go  July and August are the warmest months and the main holiday season. They're also the dampest - it might rain one day in three. So if you want to avoid the crowds and the rain, try May-June or September-October. In early autumn the leaves are turning and you can pick mushrooms and berries. Although winter is bitter, theatres open, the vodka comes out, buildings are warm and the snow is beautiful. Spring is slushy, muddy and generally horrible.     Events  Easter and Christmas are celebrated with midnight services, candlelight processions and flourishings of folk art. In April St Petersburg celebrates Music Spring, an international classical music festival, and the last 10 days of June feature the White Nights, a time for general merrymaking and staying up late. A film festival is held in Moscow in autumn in odd-numbered years. The Russian Winter Festival is celebrated in St Petersburg, Moscow and Novgorod from late December to early January, and includes folklore shows and vodka. The other main winter celebration is New Year, celebrated with presents, champagne and yet more vodka.    
europe_russia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  You can't get much further from European Russia than this famous Pacific port and naval base. Before WWII the city was a thriving and multicultural commercial centre, but from 1958 to 1990 it was entirely closed to foreigners. Its site is often compared to that of San Francisco, because of its picturesque hills and heaps of sea views - though the battleships moored offshore somewhat detract from this comparison. The city is surrounded by the Far East Maritime Reserve and the Ussuri Nature Reserve, home to black and brown bears, Siberian boars, Ussuri tigers, the rare Amur leopard and hundreds of local and migratory birds.  
europe_salzburg_activities.html:  Activities  Tourist guides conduct daily walking tours of the old city, taking in all the major sights. Another popular tour, especially with English-speaking visitors, is  The Sound of Music tour, which takes in the major city sights featured in the movie and includes a visit to the nearby Salzkammergut region. The city has over 135km (84m) of cycling paths covering 13 main routes, making both the city and the surrounding countryside accessible for bike-lovers. You'll find a variety of golfing courses in the province including the city's most 'baroque' course located in the park of Klessheim Palace, only a few minutes away from the city center. The mountains of Untersberg and Gaisberg, located just a few kilometres away from the city centre, as well as Kapuzinerberg and Mönchsberg situated next to the old town, are popular for hiking and cycling trips. In winter, getting to the nearby slopes for skiing and snowboarding is easy. The Salzkammergut region is good for water sports and also easily accessible from the city.  
europe_salzburg_attractions.html:  Attractions  The 11th-century Festung Hohensalzburg ( (Hohensalzburg Fortress)) is the high point (literally and metaphorically) of a visit to Salzburg, offering a stupendous northern city view from its 120m (400ft) elevation. The view to the south is of Alpine peaks, including the Untersberg, 1853m (6080ft). One of Europe's largest existing castles, it was never captured by an enemy. Many archbishops extended the fortress over the centuries but the greatest influence on its present structure was by Leonhard von Keutschach, Archbishop of Salzburg from 1495. His symbol was the turnip, which accounts for the fact that this strange motif appears 58 times around the castle.  It takes about 15 minutes to walk up the hill from the old town or you can use the funicular adjacent to St. Peter's Cemetery. The funicular fare includes entry to the castle grounds from where you can enjoy the views, but it is worth paying an extra fee for the complete tour of the interior. Be sure to make your way around gruesome torture chambers, the lookout tower and impressive State Rooms, as well as two small museums. Below the castle on the eastern side, you can see the 1300 year-old Benedictine convent, Stift Nonnberg, the oldest convent in German-speaking lands. The real Maria, of The Sound of Music fame, was a teacher in the convent school. She was married to Captain von Trapp in its ancient church.  
europe_salzburg_facts.html:  When to Go  Salzburg is a year-round destination so when you go depends on what you want to do or see. The summer high season is in July and August, when both large crowds and high prices may be a turn off. June and September are also busy months for tourism. Winter can get very cold but things will be less crowded and hotel prices will be lower (except over Christmas and Easter). Winter sports are in full swing from mid-December to late March.     Events  A high point on the city's cultural calendar is the Salzburg Festival ( Salzburger Festspiele) from late July to the end of August. It's a great time to see the city come to life, if you don't mind huge crowds. The festival includes an amazing number of orchestral, operatic and theatrical events and music ranging from classical to contemporary. Other important music festivals include Osterfestspiele for one week at Easter and the Pfingstokonzerte held on the Whit Sunday weekend. Mozart Week is held in late January and the city is also known for its Christkindlmarkt (Christmas Market) in December.    
europe_salzburg_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The picturesque town of Werfen provide access to one of the area's top attractions, the Eisriesenwelt ice caves. These caves, at an elevation of 1640m (5380ft), are the largest accessible ice caves in the world and were first entered in 1870. The mighty entrance to the caves, measuring 20m (66ft) wide by 18m (59ft) high, can be seen from afar. The caves contain about 30,000 cubic metres of ice and about 42km (26m) of passages have been explored. Entry is only possible with an authorized guide and the 75-minute tour, which visits only about one-fiftieth of the caves, takes in several immense caverns containing elaborate ice formations and frozen waterfalls.  Illumination is via lamps while powerful, albeit brief, magnesium flares provide additional highlighting. Wear warm clothing and heavy shoes as the temperature in the caves is usually below freezing even in summer. The caves are open between May and early October and are located near Werfen. You can get to Werfen by train (50 minutes) from Salzburg or via Hwy 10. Allow 3-4 hours for the whole visit, which includes getting to the caves from Werfen.  
europe_san_marino_activities.html:  Activities  There's plenty of good walking to be had in the nearby Appennines, if you want a break from the non-stop excitement of stamp and coin collecting.  
europe_san_marino_attractions.html:  Attractions  La Rocca, or more properly the Guaita, or First Tower, dates back to the 11th century, although it was given a few licks and spits in the 19th and 20th centuries. The structure was chipped straight out of the stone surface without recourse to foundations, and promptly pressed into service as a guard tower and refuge post.  The entrance of the pentagonal structure displays the republic's baroque coat of arms, purloined from the Palazzo Publico. It also has a picture-book bell tower (as every fortress should) and, built a few years after the bell tower, a tower of penance - which always comes in handy when you're talking medieval punishment. Up until 1970 the Rocca was still a working prison, but these days tourists are free to roam unhindered around most of the fortress.  
europe_san_marino_facts.html:  When to Go  Deciding when to go is a tug-of-war between the inclement and the innumerable. Although the city is something of a fixture on the tourist circuit all year round, it tends to draw a lot more people in the congenial, sunny months between July and September (snow in winter is not unheard of). Go during summer and both the views and queues will be outstanding. There's nothing like crisp Tuscan air and a 360 view of the surrounding countryside. Just as there's nothing like a knot of tourists climbing packed walkways to bring back horrible memories of malls and Christmas.  If you're looking for something a little extra while you're there, you might want to coincide your visit with the 'Medieval Days with Antique Crossbow Competition', because, really, what's a castle and three fortresses without a crossbow or two. Failing that you could wait till 3 September when the San Marinese brush off the crossbows again to celebrate National Independence Day.     Events  Many events smell of frankincense and myrrh as the largely Catholic population get out and about on their holy days. Religion devotion, however, does not preclude a good old secular knees-up, something the San Marinese are rather partial to, particularly if it involves a crossbow and arrow.  It begins with the Epiphany on 6 January, followed by the Anniversary of the Liberation of the Republic from the Alberoni Occupation and St Agatha's Day (5 February). In a bit of unintended irony, 1 April is the Investiture of the New Regent Captain, while the Formula One Grand Prix whizzes through the city sometime in late April/early May.  May is bookended by Labour Day (1 May) and the feast of Corpus Christi (31 May). The Medieval Days with Antique Crossbows targets late July, while the other popular non-religious festival, National Independence Day (again with the crossbows already!), occurs on 3 September. From here on in until the end of the year it's pretty much all religious events: All Saints' Day, 1 November; Commemoration of the Dead, 2 November; and the Immaculate Conception, 8 December.    
europe_san_marino_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Founded in 1361, and added holus-bolus to the Grey Friars convent, the Chiesa di San Francesco is the oldest building in the republic. It has suffered the indignities of numerous botched repair jobs and a few unsympathetic restorations in its long history, but at least the front of the building and the porch have been restored to the original line of its original builder, Gino Zani.  The wooden crucifix of the altar dates back to 300AD and probably comes from the antique church of Murata, which Pope Clemente VII had moved to the safer and more defensible location of the San Marino convent when the neighbourhood started going in for turf wars back at the beginning of the 16th century. There are a number of paintings by Niccolo Alunno of Foligno to add artistic and historical credibility to the church, and a rather fetching loggia at the back.  
europe_scotland_activities.html:  Activities  Considering its breathtaking natural beauty and abundance of destinations for activity-based holidays, it's surprising that Scotland has only just got around to implementing a national parks system - the first, Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park, only opened in 2002. This delay was due to the tradition of unrestricted access to open country. The 95-mile (153km) West Highland Way takes walkers through spectacular Highland scenery, leading all the way from Glasgow to Fort William - very handy for those aiming to climb Ben Nevis, Britain's highest peak. The Trossachs, in the heart of Rob Roy country, are also popular with walkers.   Cyclists in search of the wild and remote will enjoy the Highlands and islands of the northwest. The Hebridean Islands in particular provide superb cycling opportunities. Less intrepid cyclists will favour the lochs and glens of the central and southern areas. Britain's biggest skiing centre is in Aviemore, but there are also skiing opportunities in Glencoe, Nevis, Glenshee, The Lecht, and Nevis Range. Golf is a major attraction in Scotland, where there are more courses per capita than in any other country in the world. Britain's best surf can be found in the north, particularly around Thurso.   Fishing is expensive and heavily regulated; the Spey and surrounding lochs in the Cairngorm area present good opportunities to catch a couple of trout or salmon. On the west coast and in the islands, birdwatchers will find the marine-bird-spotting opportunities of their dreams. Finally, many trips to Scotland are complete without a visit to Loch Ness for a bit of Nessie-spotting, but, hey, if you've got the time, why not? It's a lovely, eerie place, and the perfect lair for a monster.  
europe_scotland_attractions.html:  Attractions  Edinburgh is one of the world's greatest cities. Its dramatic site, extraordinary architectural heritage and cultural vigour soon charm all visitors. The crowded tenements of the historic Old Town contrast with the orderly grid of the Georgian New Town, which in most cities would be a historic enclave by itself. Backdrops include glimpses of the Firth of Forth, the Pentland Hills and classically draped Calton Hill.  Edinburgh is best seen on foot, and the best place to start is Edinburgh Castle: beautiful, romantic and a reminder of the city's bloody past. Its foundations date back as far as 850 BC, and the oldest surviving section dates from 1130. From the 11th to 16th centuries, the castle was the symbolic seat of Scottish royalty, and today it's still home to the army's Scottish Division. It sits at the western end of the Royal Mile, which runs down to the more comfortable royal accommodation at the Palace of Holyroodhouse. This thoroughfare contains an extraordinarily intact streetscape, which has survived from the 16th and 17th centuries. A walk down some of the alleys that run off it is to rediscover the vital city of that time. Several museums and restored town houses in this vicinity give fascinating insights into urban life of the 17th century.  Nearby Calton Hill is worth climbing for its superb views and romantic monuments dating from the Enlightenment, when the city was known as the 'Athens of the North'. Before you walk down into the New Town, have a look at Greyfriars Kirk, site of the signing of the National Covenant in 1638. The graveyard was the backdrop for one of Disney's most heart-rending films, Greyfriars Bobby, the story (based on legend) of a little Skye terrier which held vigil for 14 years over the grave of his master.   New Town lies to the north, separated by the sunken railway line and Princes St Gardens, which feature the supremely Gothic Sir Walter Scott Monument. Georgian order and elegance are reflected in New Town's beautiful squares, circuses and terraces. The National Gallery of Scotland has an impressive collection of European art, while the pageant of Scottish history can be seen at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery.  Edinburgh has a rich and varied cultural life, from the Tattoo to the International and Fringe festivals. These are times to be sure to book accommodation well in advance. B&B accommodation is one of the best ways to get an insight into the daily life of Edinburgh's residents. There is a handy concentration north of New Town and in the suburb of Newington, south of the city centre. Numerous youth hostels are sprinkled on the city's outskirts. Surprisingly, the Royal Mile has numerous good-value and enjoyable eateries, with everything from Singaporean satays to traditional Scottish cuisine.  
europe_scotland_environment.html:  Environment  Scotland is about half the size of England, and roughly two-thirds of the country is mountain and moorland. Geographically, it can be divided into three areas: the Southern Uplands, the Central Lowlands, and the Northern Highlands and Islands. The Southern Uplands are the fertile plains and hills bordering England; the Central Lowlands run from Edinburgh to Glasgow and contain the industrial belt and most of the population, while the Highlands are mountain ranges of sandstone and granite, rising to their heights at Ben Nevis, Britain's highest mountain. Of Scotland's 790 islands, 130 are inhabited. Island groups include the Inner and Outer Hebrides, the Orkneys and the Shetlands.  Although much of the country was once covered by the Caledonian forest - a mix of Scots pine, oak, silver birch, willow, alder, rowan and heather - this mighty treescape is now reduced to a few pockets of indigenous vegetation. Almost three-quarters of the country is uncultivated bog, rock and heather, with almost 800,000 hectares (2 million acres) clothed in acidic peat. In the far north there are lichens and mosses found nowhere else in Britain. Although the thistle is commonly assicated with Scotland, the national flower is the Scottish bluebell. Scotland's first-ever national park, Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park, opened in 2002. There are also plans to create a second national park in the Cairngorms.  Red deer are found in large numbers. Wild boars, once nearly extinct, have been reintroduced, while the extremely rare wildcats and wild goats are hanging on by the skin of their teeth. Foul-tempered highland cattle were bred to endure the cold climate, and sheep graze grasslands all over the country. Otters are rare, but introduced minks are spreading like wildfire. Scotland's famous game birds, the grouse, graze in large numbers on the country's heather, and millions of greylag geese winter on the stubble fields of the lowlands. Seals are frequently seen, and visitors come from all over for the famed Scottish salmon.  'Varied' describes Scotland's climate perfectly. There are wide variations in climate over small distances, and a sunny day will often as not be followed by a rainy one. Although the country nudges the Arctic Circle, the Gulf Stream winds keep the temperature mild (well, relatively mild). The Highlands, however, can have extreme weather at any time. The east coast tends to be cool and dry, with winter temperatures rarely dropping below freezing (but watch out for the bone-chilling winds off the North Sea). The west coast is milder and wetter, with average summer highs of 19 C (66 F). May and June are the driest months; July and August the warmest. In summer the sun barely sets in the north; in the winter it barely rises.  
europe_scotland_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: EU citizens may live and work free of any immigration controls. Citizens of the USA, Canada, Australia, South Africa and New Zealand are generally allowed to stay six months without a visa.Health risks: NoneTime: GMT/UTC & BST (British Summer Time)Electricity: 240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric (except road distances in miles and beer, which is measured in pints) When to Go  The best time to visit Scotland is between May and September. April and October are acceptable as far as weather goes, but a lot of places are closed in October. Aside from those interested in skiing or frostbite, the Highlands are pretty much off limits during winter, but Edinburgh and Glasgow are still worth visiting. Edinburgh becomes impossibly crowded during the festival in August, and you will have to book a very, very, very long time in advance.     Events  The highlight of Scotland's calendar is the Edinburgh Festival, held every August. This is one of the world's most important arts festivals, and its Fringe claims to be the largest in the world, with over 500 performers pushing the boundaries every year. The city's Military Tattoo is held in the same month, as is the Edinburgh International Film Festival, Edinburgh Book Festival and Glasgow's World Pipe Band Championships. September's Braemar Gathering is attended by the queen in Braemar, with other games held all over the country. All Scotland hits the streets for Hogmanay, the Scottish celebration of New Year, and you can expect a better party than you've had for some time. For some truly unruly rugby, try the Ba' in Kirkwall in the Orkney Islands, which has been held on Christmas Day and New Year's Day for centuries. It consists of two teams and some 400 alcohol-fuelled players, who turn the entire town into a giant rugby pitch for the day. The game starts at the cathedral and the harbour is one of the goals. Puritans should steer well clear.    
europe_scotland_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  A charming market town in the heart of the Borders, Melrose features a ruined abbey, a classic market square and some good walks in the surrounding countryside. The abbey ruins are pure Gothic, with particularly decorative stonework. Sir Walter Scott had a hand in their repair in the 19th century. The Trimontium Exhibition tells the story of the Roman fort of Trimontium ('three hills') at nearby Newstead and its associated archaeological dig. Gardens and a motor museum round off the attractive town's sights.  
europe_scottish_highlands_and_islands_activities.html:  Activities  The Scots love their games, watching them with fierce, competitive dedication and identifying closely with teams and individuals competing both locally and internationally. The most popular games are football (soccer), rugby union, lawn bowls, golf (which the Scots claim to have invented), and the endemic shinty and curling. Shinty is an amateur ball-and-stick sport similar to Ireland's hurling. It's fast, very physical and played in winter. Curling involves teams of four propelling circular polished granite stones over ice as close to the centre of a target as possible.  Another popular activity, among locals and visitors alike, is walking. Scottish walkers are fiercely protective of their right to roam the mountains and moors, and legal rights of ways plus responsible access agreements to private property have resulted in a multitude of paths for enthusiasts to enjoy. These include the long-distance West Highland Way and Great Glen Way. Whether it is conquering Britain's highest mountain, discovering the isolation of the Highlands' moors or wandering along spectacular sea cliffs, the range of options is as varied as the landscape itself.  An unusual, and typically British, way to explore the Highlands' Great Glen is on the canal in a narrowboat - with all the comforts of home. Other activities popular in the region include cycling the quite roads of the majestic Highlands and mystical islands; diving, surfing or swimming (equipped with a wetsuit for anything more than a quick dip); skiing Britain's best snow resorts in the Cairn Gorm and Glen Coe areas; and birdwatching, particularly the nesting seabird colonies on Orkney and Shetland.  
europe_scottish_highlands_and_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  Scenically located on the shores of the inner Moray Firth, at the northern end of the Great Glen, Inverness is the bustling capital of the Highlands. Visitors flock to the town in summer, using it as a base while they experience the region's remote open spaces or enjoy a little monster hunting at nearby Loch Ness. It is also well worth spending some time strolling and birdwatching along the picturesque River Ness or cruising on the Moray Firth in search of its 100 or so bottlenose dolphins.  One of the town's major attractions is Inverness Castle, a 19th-century replacement of the 15th-century original, blown up by the Jacobites in 1746. Today it serves as the local sheriff's court. The Drum Tower houses the Castle Garrison Encounter, where actors representing characters from the Hanoverian army of 1746 attempt to bring history alive. In front of the castle stands a statue of the ubiquitous Highland heroine Flora MacDonald, who helped Bonnie Prince Charlie to escape, following his defeat at the Battle of Culloden in 1746.  Thanks to Inverness' often turbulent history and, in more recent times, dubious planning decisions, relatively few buildings of real age have survived. Much of the town dates from the completion of Telford's Caledonian Canal in 1822, but older structures include the 1593 Abertarff House and the 1668 Dunbar's Hospital, both in Church St. Across the river and south along the bank lie St Andrew's Cathedral, dating from 1866-69, and the modern Eden Court Theatre, which hosts regular art exhibits. It's also worth a stroll around Ness Islands, connected to the riverbanks by footbridges.  
europe_scottish_highlands_and_islands_environment.html:  Environment  The area known as the Highlands stretches north of the Highland Boundary Fault, a natural border running northeast from Helensburgh (west of Glasgow) to Stonehaven (south of Aberdeen). It covers about two-thirds of the country and, as its name suggests, consists primarily of rugged mountain ranges. The western coastline is deeply indented with dozens of long, deep saltwater lochs separated by rugged headlands and peninsulas. The profile of the eastern coast is generally smoother.  Dotted around the Highlands' north and west coasts are 790 islands, 130 of which are inhabited. To the north lie two island groups, Orkney and Shetland. The Western Isles (or Outer Hebrides) parallel the north-western coast. The Inner Hebrides is the scattering of mainly small islands farther south including Mull, Jura and Islay, and the sub-group of the Small Isles (Canna, Rum, Muck and Eigg). The larger islands of Skye and Arran, closer to the mainland, aren't usually included in the Inner Hebrides.  Although much of the country was once covered by Caledonian woodlands (a mix of Scots pine, oak, silver birch, willow, alder and rowan, with heather underfoot), deforestation has reduced this mighty forest to a few small pockets. From the 1970s concern about the dwindling native woodland inspired replanting projects by the Forestry Commission and conservation organisations, culminating in the ambitious Millennium Forest project to help restore native woodlands on hundreds of sites across Scotland. A large proportion of the country is uncultivated bog, rock and heather. Alpine plants thrive in mountainous areas like the Cairngorms, while in the far north there are lichens and mosses found nowhere else in Britain. Despite massive destruction since the mid-19th century, Scotland still has more lowland raised peatland than any other European Union country. Peatland is of immense importance for wildlife conservation, and more than 20 peatland reserves now enjoy the protection of Special Area of Conservation status.  Large numbers of grouse graze the heather on the moors, and in heavily forested areas you may be lucky enough to see a capercaillie. With extensive coastlines, it is not surprising to find millions of seabirds including gannets, kittiwakes, puffins, shags, fulmars and guillemots. The fabled wild Scottish salmon and varieties of trout are found in many rivers and lochs. Of the domestic animals, the distinctive and hairy Highland cattle are well adapted to survive the cold.  
europe_scottish_highlands_and_islands_facts.html:  When to Go  Whatever time of year you visit the Highlands and Islands, you are likely to see both sun and rain. The weather can change within a day and from one to the next. As some locals are wont to say, 'If you don't like the weather, come back this afternoon.' There are also wide variations over small distances - one glen may languish under cloud and drizzle, the next may be basking in sunshine. However, the best time to visit is from May to September. April and October are also acceptable weather risks but many places close in October. Snowfalls can be expected between November and March, when the popular Highlands ski resorts are at their best.     Events  A diverse collection of events are held in the Highlands and Islands throughout the year. Even tiny villages still uphold traditional customs and ceremonies, some dating back hundreds of years. You will often see posters advertising a ceilidh (pronounced kay-lee and meaning 'visit') at pubs and other venues. Originally a social gathering at people's houses after the day's work was over, nowadays a ceilidh means an evening of entertainment with music, song and dance.  One of the year's biggest celebrations is Hogmanay, with a swag of local festivities to greet the New Year. The Ba', a truly unruly form of rugby, is held on New Year's day in the streets of Kirkwall (Orkney). Two teams of some 400 alcohol-fuelled players chase each other and a ball until one team reaches its goal. Folk in the Shetland Islands remember their Norse heritage with Up Helly Aa, a re-enactment of the Viking fire festival, held on the last Tuesday in January. Every May, the Orkney Folk Festival features a program of concerts, ceilidhs and workshops.   Walking festivals are held each year (mainly between April and October) in places like Royal Deeside (Braemar-Ballater area), Pitlochry, Loch Ness (Drumnadrochit) and Shetland. Highland Games or gatherings take place in many towns during summer. Originally the games were organised by clan chiefs and kings, who recruited the strongest competitors for their armies and as bodyguards. Even today Queen Elizabeth never fails to attend the Braemar Gathering in September, the best known of them all. Activities include caber tossing, Scottish country dancing, Highland dancing and piping (playing the bagpipes), athletics and, often, cycling.    
europe_scottish_highlands_and_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If you venture north to the Orkney archipelago, you will be rewarded by the greatest concentration of prehistoric archaeological sites in Europe. Foremost among these is Skara Brae; a 5000-year-old village that was covered by sand until it was exposed by a severe storm in 1850. It is the best-preserved Neolithic village in Europe: even the stone furniture - beds, boxes and dressers - survived, offering an incredible insight into the thriving communities that existed in Stone Age Orkney. No wonder it has been classified as a World Heritage site.  Nearby is the Ring of Brodgar, a wide circle of standing stones raised some 4500 years ago. Thirty-six of the original 60 stones are still standing among the heather, and some of them are more than 16ft (5m) tall. It's an impressive sight and a powerful place. Among the natural wonders in the area is the Yesnaby Castle sea stack, a rock tower similar to the Old Man of Hoy. It is situated off the Yesnaby Coast, perhaps the most beautiful section of cliff line in Orkney. Watch out during the nesting season as seabirds will dive-bomb you to protect their nests.  
europe_seville_activities.html:  Activities  There's a great deal to do in Seville apart from seeing the sights, partying all night and betting on corridas ( bullfights). Cycling around town is an excellent way to explore the city. Attending a local Real Betis or Sevilla football (soccer) match is a great way to meet the local fanatics. Shopping for luxury items, clothes, arts and crafts and other goods is also a popular pastime. The colorful Thursday flea market ( mercadillo) is well worth a visit. After dark, flamenco song and dance shows heat things up in Triana's smoky bars - steer clear of expensive, tourist-oriented tablaos unless you're looking for the Mickey Mouse version of Spain.  
europe_seville_attractions.html:  Attractions  Seville's immense cathedral, one of the biggest in the world, was built on the site of Muslim Seville's main mosque between 1401 and 1507. The adjoining tower, La Giralda, was the mosque's minaret and dates from the 12th century; climb up for great views. One highlight of the cathedral's lavish interior is Christopher Columbus' supposed tomb inside the south door.  
europe_seville_facts.html:  When to Go  Climatically, the ideal times to show up in Andaluc a are April to June and September to the first half of October - when temperatures are pleasantly warm, and you'll avoid the winter torrents. Culturally, spring festivals present Seville at its prime, but room rates rise like the mercury does in summer. In July and August, when daytime temperatures typically reach a sweltering 36 C (97 F), there's a crush of Spanish and foreign tourists, and locals sensibly flee the city for breezier coastal climes. From December to February, average daily highs hover around 16 C (61 F). Rain falls mainly from October to March (50-100mm or 2-4in per month, comparable to rainfall in London).     Events  Seville's solemn Semana Santa processions, during the week leading up to Easter, and its famously festive Feria de Abril, the fair which follows a week or two later, are two of Spain's most exciting to-dos. Other special events include the Cabalgata de los Reyes Magos in January, featuring a sweet parade of floating floats; Corpus Christi processions from the Catedral in late May/early June; and the biannual Bienal de Flamenco festival in September, held during even-numbered years.    
europe_seville_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  It lica, about 8km (5mi) northwest of Seville, on the northwest edge of the small town of Santiponce, was the first Roman town in Spain. Most of the Roman vetus urbs (old town) is now buried beneath Santiponce, but visitors can wander partly reconstructed ruins in the nova urbs (new town), which was added by emperor Hadrian, successor to Trajan. The ruins include one of the biggest Roman amphitheaters, the Termas Mayores public bathhouse and some excellent mosaics. To the west, in the vetus urbs, you might also check out a restored Roman theater.  
europe_slovakia_activities.html:  Activities  Slovakia is well-known as one of Eastern Europe's prime hiking areas, but it's also good for rafting, especially on the Dunajec River in Pieniny National Park. Slovakia is also hard to beat for top value skiing: the best skiing is in Jasn , Nizke Tatry, and it's also very good in the Mal Fatra. With its uncrowded roads and beautiful scenery, Slovakia is prime cycling territory. Mountain bikes can be rented in the Vysoke Tatry where the pedal-pushing opportunities are endless.  
europe_slovakia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Bratislava (Pozsony in Hungarian, Pressburg in German) is Slovakia's largest city and has been the capital since 1969. Here the Carpathian Mountains, which begin at the Iron Gate of Romania, finally come to an end. As you arrive at the main train station, you'll see vineyards on the slopes of the Little Carpathian Mountains, where they meet the Danube River. The Austrian border is almost within sight of the city and Hungary is just 16km away. Many beautiful monuments survive in the old town to tell of its past under Hungarian rule, and Bratislava's numerous museums are surprisingly rich. Franz Lizst visited Bratislava 15 times, and the opera productions of the Slovak National Theatre rival anything in Europe. Bratislava isn't as swamped by Western tourism as are Budapest and Prague (except on weekends when the Austrians invade).  The old city and the castle are the best parts of Bratislava - the rest of the city is pretty drab. The old city is packed with museums (such as the Municipal Museum which comes complete with torture chambers and the Museum of Wine Production) and palaces (such as the Primate's Palace, where Napoleon and the Austrian Emperor Franz I signed a peace treaty in 1805, and the rococo Mirbach Palace). The castle, built above the Danube, was a frontier post of the Roman Empire from the 1st to the 5th century. Since the 9th century it has been rebuilt several times, most recently between 1953 and 1962. Climb up for the great views and to check out the very interesting Museum of Folk Music within. The Slovak National Museum and the Slovak National Gallery on the river are also worth a visit.  Hviezdoslavovo n mestie (square) is a convenient orientation point, with the old town to the north, the Danube to the south, and Bratislava Castle to the west. Bratislava's main train station, Hlavn stanica, is several km north of town. Most of the cheaper hostels and mid-priced hotels are north-east of the centre. The food market in the centre of town is a good place to eat; there are ritzier restaurants in the vicinity of the castle.  
europe_slovakia_environment.html:  Environment  Slovakia sits in the heart of Europe, straddling the north-western end of the Carpathian Mountains and forming a clear physical barrier between the plains of Poland to the north and Hungary to the south. The spectacular High Tatra alpine range runs along Slovakia's north-eastern border, shared with Poland. Gerlachovsk (2655m/8708ft) is the highest of the mighty Tatra peaks. Although almost 80% of Slovakia is over 750m (2460ft) above sea level, the portion south of Nitra is a fertile lowland stretching down to the Danube River which forms the border with Hungary. Slovakia also shares borders with the Czech Republic in the north-west, Austria in the south-west and Ukraine in the east.  Forests, mainly beech and spruce, cover 40% of the country despite centuries of deforestation. Wildlife includes bears, wolves, lynxes, marmots, chamois, otters and mink that live in the High Tatras. The national parks outside the Tatra include most of these animals in smaller numbers. Deer, pheasants, partridges, ducks, wild geese, storks, grouse, eagles and vultures can be seen throughout the countryside. The Slovak countryside is not as badly polluted as other European countries although larger towns that have seen rapid industrialization since WWII are suffering.  The damp continental climate over most of the Slovak Republic is responsible for warm, showery summers, cold, snowy winters, and generally changeable conditions. July is the hottest month everywhere, January the coldest. From December through February, temperatures push below freezing even in the lowlands, and are bitter in the mountains. There is no real 'dry season', and the long, sunny hot spells of summer tend to be broken by sudden, heavy thunderstorms. The driest regions are Slovakia's southern lowlands. Winter brings 40 to 100 days of snow on the ground (about 130 in the mountains), plus fog in the lowlands.  
europe_slovakia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Nationals of all Western European countries can visit Slovakia without a visa. US, Australian, New Zealand and South African passport holders can stay for 30 days without a visa. If you require a visa to Slovakia, it is strongly advised that you obtain one before commencing your journey or at a foreign consulate. It may be difficult to obtain one at a border crossing.Health risks: encephalitis, Lyme diseaseTime:GMT/UTC plus one hourElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism:More than 100,000 visitors a year When to Go  May, June and September are the prime visiting months, with April and October as chillier and sometimes cheaper alternatives. Most Slovaks take their holidays in July and August when hotels and tourist sights are more than usually crowded, and hostels are chock-a-block with students, expecially in the Tatras mountain resort areas. Luckily, the supply of bottom end accommodation increases in large towns during this time, as student hostels are thrown open to visitors. Centres like Bratislava and the mountain resorts cater to visitors all year round. Elsewhere, from October or November until March or April, most castles, museums and other tourist attractions, and some associated accommodation and transport, close down.     Events  Practically every day is a saint's day in the Slovak Republic, and 'special days', festivals and public holidays are widely acknowledged. Public holidays include New Year's Day (1 January), Three Kings Day (6 January), Labour Day (1 May), Cyril and Methodius Day (5 July) and Christmas (24-26 December). The Bratislava Lyre in May or June features rock concerts. During June or July folk dancers from all over Slovakia meet at the Vychondn Folklore Festival, 32km (20mi) west of Poprad. The Bratislava Jazz Days are held in September.    
europe_slovakia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Trencianske Teplice is a spa town in West Slovakia. Hiking trails lead into the green hills flanking the resort. There's a thermal swimming pool (open from May to September) and five hot sulphur springs in the resort itself. Those with a taste for the exotic should also visit the hammam, a Turkish bathhouse in the middle of town. Trencianske Teplice is accessible via the main railway line between Trenc n and Zilina.  
europe_slovenia_activities.html:  Activities   Skiing is by far the most popular sport in Slovenia, and every fourth Slovene is an active skier. There are well-equipped ski resorts in the Julian Alps, especially at Vogel, which has impressive ski runs overlooking the Bohinj Valley. The ski season lasts from December to March.   Hiking is almost as popular as skiing. There are 7000km (4340mi) of marked hiking trails and 165 mountain huts - which is quite considerable for such a small country. The full grandeur of the Julian Alps can be experienced in Triglav National Park at Bohinj. Veteran mountaineers should tramp the Slovenian Alpine Trail, which crosses all the highest peaks in the country.  There's excellent rough and tumble white-water rafting on the Soca River; the town of Bovec makes a good starting point. The uncrowded roads around Bled, Bohinj and Otocec beg to be bicycled.  
europe_slovenia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Ljubljana is a smaller Prague without the hordes of tourists. By far Slovenia's largest and most populous city, it feels like a clean, green, self-contented town rather than an industrious municipality of national importance.  Ljubljana began as the Roman town of Emona, and legacies of the Roman presence remain throughout the city. The Habsburgs took control in the 14th century and later built many of the pale-coloured churches and mansions that earned the city the nickname 'White Ljubljana'. From 1809 to 1814, Ljubljana was the capital of the Illyrian Provinces, Napoleon's short-lived springboard to the eastern Adriatic. Despite the patina of imperial Austria, contemporary Ljubljana has a vibrant Slavic air all its own. The 35,000-something students who attend Ljubljana University keep the city young.  Most of the city's sights are along the banks of the Ljubljana River. On the southwest side is the Municipal Museum, stocked with a collection of Roman artefacts, plus a scale model of Roman Emona and some terrific period furniture. Further northwest from it is the National Museum, which has the requisite prehistory, natural history and ethnography collections. The highlight is a Celtic situla, a kind of pail or urn, from the 6th century BC. Diagonally opposite is the Museum of Modern Art, where the International Biennial of Graphic Arts is held every other summer. More museums occupy the Old Town, which also features cafes, baroque churches and quaint bridges hidden in its maze of narrow streets. If looking at all this art incites the need for some R&R, head for peaceful Tivoli Park, in the northwestern quadrant of the city. A recreation centre within the park contains bowling alleys, tennis courts, swimming pools and a rollerskating rink.  
europe_slovenia_environment.html:  Environment  Slovenia occupies about 2% of central Europe - 20,256 sq km (7817 sq mi) of land area - and it's about the size of Israel or Wales. To the north is Austria and to the south Croatia. Shorter borders separate Slovenia from Italy in the west and Hungary in the east. Slovenia is predominantly hilly with more than 90% of its surface over 300m (984ft) above sea level. Forest covers almost half of the country (making Slovenia one of the world's 'greenest' countries) and agricultural land - mostly made up of fields, orchards, vineyards and pastures - covers a further 43%.  There are six main regions within the country: the Alps; the pre-Alpine hills; the Dinaric karst (a limestone region of caves and underground rivers) below the hills; the Slovenian littoral, 47km (29mi) of Adriatic coastline; the flat Pannonian plain; and the lowlands, making up around one-fifth of the country mostly in the east and north-east. The interior is drained by rivers including the Sava and the Drava (which empty into the Danube), the Soca flowing into the Adriatic, the Mura and the Krka. The Kolpa River marks much of the border with Croatia.  The country is home to 2900 plant species and many are unique to Slovenia. Triglav National Park is especially rich in endemic flowering plants. Common European animals are abundant in Slovenia, including deer, boar, chamois, bear and lynx (all of which are hunted), and it's also home to rarer beasts such as the moor tortoise, cave hedgehog, scarab beetle and various dormice. Proteus anguinus, the 'human fish', is unique to Slovenia's karst caves, and is one of the world's most mysterious creatures.  The northwest has an Alpine climate and temperatures in the Alpine valleys are moderate in summer but cold in winter. The Adriatic coast and much of the Primorska (westernmost) province have a Mediterranean climate with warm, sunny days and mild winters. Most of eastern Slovenia has a Continental climate with hot summers and cold winters. January is the coldest month when the average daytime temperature is minus 2 C, (28 F) and July is the warmest with an average of 21 C (70 F).  
europe_slovenia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of Australia, Canada, Israel, Japan, Hong Kong, the USA and most European countries do not require visas for stays of up to 90 days. Citizens of other countries can get 90-day visas in advance at any Slovenian embassy or consulate, or 30 day visas on arrival.Health risks: NoneTime: GMT/UTC plus 1 hour, daylight savings observedElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  September is an excellent month to visit because it's the best time for hiking and climbing, and the summer crowds have vanished. December to March is high-time for skiers, while spring is a good time to be in the lowlands and valleys because everything's in blossom. Try to avoid July and August, when hotel rates rise and there are lots more tourists, especially on the coast.     Events  The International Summer Festival is the nation's premier cultural celebration, featuring music, theatre and dance performances in Ljubljana and Bled during the months of July and August. Maribor's Lent Festival, in late June or early July, celebrates foklore, culture and music. The Cows' Ball ( Kravji Bal) in Bohinj is a kitschy weekend of eating, drinking and folk dancing in mid-September to mark the return of the cows to the valleys from their high pastures. It doesn't get any more Slovenian than this.  January and March bring ski competitions - the January Women's World Cup Slalom and Giant Slalom Competition is one of the major ski events for women, held on the slopes southwest of Maribor. In March, the Ski Jumping World Championships host three days of high flying in Planica. In between the two, there's a rite of spring called Kurentovanje, held every February for 10 days up to Shrove Tuesday. This is the most popular Mardi Gras celebration in Slovenia; most of the festivities are centered in and around Ptuj.    
europe_slovenia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Soca Valley, defined by the aquamarine Soca River, stretches from Triglav National Park to the Italian border town of Nova Gorica and is one of the most beautiful and peaceful spots in Slovenia. It wasn't always. During much of WWI, this was the site of the infamous Soca Front, which claimed the lives of an estimated 1 million people and was immortalised by Ernest Hemingway in his novel A Farewell to Arms.  In 1917, combined Austrian, German, Hungarian and Slovenian forces met in Kobarid, on the front, and defeated the Italian army. It was the greatest breakthrough of WWI. Visitors flock to Mediterranean-style Kobarid (known as Caporetto to Hemingway) to relive these events at the award-winning, anti-war Kobarid Museum.  Half a dozen buses travel between Kobarid and Ljubljana daily. Kobarid is about 150km (93mi) northwest of the capital. Due north 21km (13mi) is Bovec, an adventure sports centre full of hiking, kayaking, mountain biking and skiing opportunities.  
europe_spain_activities.html:  Activities   Skiing is cheap and the facilities and conditions are surprisingly good. The season runs from December to May and the most accessible resorts are in the Sierra Nevada, the Pyrenees and in the ranges north of Madrid. Spain is a trekking paradise, especially the Pyrenees and the Picos de Europa. You can also hike the Camino de Santiago, the famous pilgrims' route running from Navarra to Santiago de Compostela   Cycling is popular but there are deterrents, like the often-mountainous terrain, crowded roads and summer heat. Take your pick of the hundreds of beaches offering fine swimming, but be prepared to tiptoe over package tourists during summer. The coast of the Pa s Vasco (Basque Country) has good surf.  
europe_spain_attractions.html:  Attractions  Madrid may not have the glamour or user-friendliness of Barcelona, but what it lacks in style it more than makes up for in substance, with a remarkable collection of museums and galleries, beautiful parks and gardens and wild nightlife.  The most fitting place to start getting to know Madrid is at Puerta del Sol. Sol, as it is known to locals, is not much more than a huge traffic-junction-cum-bus-stop, but it's as central as you can get. Although Madrid is an enormous metropolis, the region which is of most interest to travellers is confined by Campo del Moro in the west and Parque del Buen Retiro in the east. The most exciting street is Gran V a, but Plaza Mayor is the true heart of Madrid.  Be sure not to miss one of the greatest art galleries in the world, the Museo del Prado, where the main emphasis is on Spanish, Flemish and Italian art from the 15th to 19th centuries. Goya is well represented and you'll find a wealth of paintings by Diego Vel zquez. If you haven't run out of steam after the Prado, the Cas n del Buen Retiro houses an excellent collection of 19th-century Spanish art. For one of the best art history lessons you'll ever get, check out the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza, a private assembly of paintings from Titian to Pollock. The Museo de la Escultura Abstracta, has an interesting collection of abstracts by some of Spain's better known modern sculptors, including Chillida and Mir . The beautiful Real Jardin Bot nico, near the Prado, is a good spot to recover from an art overdose.  For the little bit of interior decorator in everyone, visit the Palacio Real, if only as a lesson in what can happen when you give yourself free rein - you'll see some of the most elaborately decorated walls and ceilings imaginable. If you've ever got stuck renovating a house, take heart in the stark and cavernous  Catedral de Nuestra Se ora de la Almudena. It opened to the public in 1992 after only 110 years under construction.  Madrid is the home of the world's largest bullring, Plaza de Toros Monumental de las Ventas, and is one of the best places to see a bullfight (corrida) - if you're so inclined. For something a little less cruel to animals, check out a football match when local favourites Real Madrid or Atletico de Madrid are playing at home. If you're in town on a Sunday morning, snaffle a bargain at El Rastro, one of the biggest flea markets you are ever likely to see. This is said to be the place to go if you want to buy your stereo back, so watch your pockets and bags.  Finding a place to stay in Madrid is never really a problem. In summer the city is drained of people, thanks to the horrific heat, so if you are mad enough to be here then, you may well be able to make a hot deal on the price. At other times it is still worth trying to bargain if you intend to stay a while. The Santa Ana area is one of Madrid's most popular places to stay and it's close to good restaurants and nightclubs. The epicentre of Madrid's nightlife is Plaza del Dos de Mayo, in the area known as Malasa a.  
europe_spain_environment.html:  Environment  Spain and Portugal share the Iberian Peninsula, a vaguely square-shaped realm at the far southwestern edge of Europe. Spain occupies some 80% of this peninsula and spreads over nearly 505,000 sq km, making it the biggest country in Western Europe after France. More than half of the country is made up of vast, elevated tablelands - the mesetas - and five major mountain ranges stretch across the country. In fact, with an average altitude of 650m, it's the highest European country after Switzerland. Landscapes range from the deserts of Andaluc a to the green wetlands of Galicia; from the sunbaked plains of Castilla-La Mancha to the rugged snowcapped Picos de Europa and Pyrenees. The Canary Islands archipelago in the Atlantic Ocean, west of Morocco, is an autonomous community belonging to Spain.  The prevalence of an 'if you see it, shoot it' philosophy has destroyed much of Spain's wildlife. Critters that you may still come across include red squirrels, chamois, deer, ibex, genet and a wide range of reptiles. Spain has around 25 breeding species of birds of prey, and it is a haven for water birds thanks to its large wetland areas. Gibraltar is famous for its Barbary macaques, the only wild monkeys in Europe. Native flora is prolific, especially in the alpine regions.  Most tourists come to Spain's coastal strip during July and August, when the sun is at its strongest. Madrid is unbearable at this time of year and is almost deserted by Spaniards. In the north, and on the Balearic Islands, summer temperatures of around 30 C are standard. In winter, the rain never seems to stop in the north, except in the backlands of Galicia and the Pyrenees, where they turn into snow. Generally the north is best during summer, Andaluc a is best in spring, the centre is best in autumn, and the south is best in winter.  
europe_spain_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Spain, along with Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Portugal, forms part of the border-free travel zone subject to the Schengen Agreement. US, Canadian, Australian, New Zealand and Israeli citizens are among those who may enter Spain as tourists without a visa and stay up to 90 days. EU passport holders can come and go as they please.Time:GMT/UTC +1 (+2 in summer)Electricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism:51 million visitors When to Go  The ideal months to visit are May, June and September (plus April and October in the south). At these times you can rely on good weather, yet avoid the sometimes extreme heat - and the main crush of Spanish and foreign tourists. That said, there's decent weather in some parts of Spain virtually year-round. Winter along the southern and southeastern Mediterranean coasts is mild, while in the height of summer you can retreat to the northwest, or to beaches or high mountains anywhere, if you need to get away from excessive heat. If you want to make sure you hit some parties, the best festivals are concentrated between Semana Santa (the week leading up to Easter Sunday) and September.     Events  In true Spanish style, cultural events are almost inevitably celebrated with a wild party and a holiday. Among the festivals to look out for are Festividad in San Sebasti n in January, when the whole town dresses up and goes berserk. Carnaval takes place throughout the country in late February; the wildest is said to be in Sitges. In March, Valencia has a week-long party known as Las Fallas, which is marked by all-night dancing, drinking, first-class fireworks and colourful processions. Semana Santa (Holy Week) is the week leading up to Easter Sunday with parades of holy images through the streets; Seville is the place to be if you can get accommodation. In late April the Feria de Abril in Seville is a week-long party counterbalancing the religious fervour of Semana Santa.  The last Wednesday in August sees the Valencian town of Bu ol go bonkers with La Tomatina, in which the surplus from its tomato harvest is sploshed around in a friendly riot. The Running of the Bulls (Sanfermines) in Pamplona in July is Spain's most famous festival. Along the north coast, staggered through the first half of August, is Semana Grande, another week of heavy drinking and hangovers.    
europe_spain_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Nowhere in Spain has been untouched by tourism, but beautiful Las Hurdes in mountainous northern Extremadura comes close. Time has not quite stood still, but it has certainly slowed right down, and many people still live in the traditional stone houses that are unique to this corner of Spain. It's an area of picturesque hamlets, waterfalls and fine walks, but you'll need a car to explore it properly.  
europe_stockholm_activities.html:  Activities  Stockholm offers a great variety of activities for its taxpayers, and prices are subsidised. In summer, many people head for the coast and the islands with good swimming spots, or go picnicking in the parks. There are also indoor/open-air pools in the far south of Södermalm.  Wwith all this water about, why not try boating, either of the sail or motor variety. There are also rentals available for those who prefer kayaking or canoeing   Cycling is best in parks and away from the busy central streets and arterial roads, but some streets have special cycle lanes (often shared with pedestrians). Tourist offices can supply maps of cycle routes.  
europe_stockholm_attractions.html:  Attractions  The 'new' Royal Palace is one of Stockholm's highlights, and it was constructed on the site of the 'old' royal castle, Tre Kronor, which burned down in 1697. The north wing of the castle survived the fire and was incorporated in the palace, but the medieval designs are now concealed by a baroque exterior. The palace, with 608 rooms, is the largest royal castle in the world still used for its original purpose. The excellent state apartments, including the Hall of State and the Apartments of the Royal Orders of Chivalry, are open to the public (except during state functions), with two floors of royal pomp, 18th- and 19th-century furnishings and portraits of pale princes and princesses. Swedish regalia, crowns, scepters, orbs and keys are displayed at the Royal Treasury, by the southern entrance to the palace and near the Royal Chapel. Gustav III's Museum of Antiquities displays the Mediterranean treasures (particularly sculpture) acquired by that eccentric monarch.  The new basement Museum Tre Kronor, opened in December 1999, features the foundations of 13th-century defensive walls and exhibits rescued from the medieval castle during the fire of 1697. The Changing of the Guard usually takes place in the outer courtyard at 12:10pm daily June to August. The rest of the year it's on Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday only.  
europe_stockholm_environment.html:  Environment  Stockholm has historic ties with France reflected in some of its stylish architecture. Stockholm's coastal archipelago ( skärgård) consists of at least 24,000 islands and is served by one of the largest antique steamer fleets anywhere in Europe.  Ecological consciousness is high and reflected in concern for native animals, clean water and renewable resources. The Swedish government strictly enforces its anti-pollution laws. Fishing in clean waters surrounding central Stockholm isn't unusual.  
europe_stockholm_facts.html:  When to Go  Most of Sweden has a cool temperate climate, with precipitation in all seasons, but the southern quarter of the country has a warm temperate climate. Sweden is shielded from rainy Atlantic weather systems and can be influenced by high pressure over Russia, giving fine weather instead. Stockholm has an average of about nine hours of sunshine daily from May to July.     Events  The Summer Music Festival, held from late May through August at the Drottningholms Court Theatre, celebrates opera, classical music and ballets by featuring productions that use historical, original instruments.  Each November, the Stockholm International Film Festival offers new filmmakers a competitive forum in which to strut their stuff. A relative newcomer to the scene and one of the few 24-hour film festivals in existence, this event has become one of Europe's most important film competitions.  Foodies should look out for Restaurangernas Dag in early June, when Stockholm's restaurants move into central Kungsträdgården and offer food, drinks and entertainment. The Stockholm Jazz Festival blows through town in mid-July. The gay and lesbian Stockholm Pride event is held in early August.    
europe_stockholm_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Vaxholm, about 35km (22mi) north-east of the city, is the gateway to the central and northern reaches of Stockholm's archipelago, so it swarms with tourists in summer. Despite that, it's a pleasant place with several attractions, and it's well worth a visit. The town was founded in 1647 and has many quaint summerhouses, which were fashionable in the 19th century. The oldest buildings are in the Norrhamn area, a few minutes' walk north of the town hall, but there's interesting architecture along Hamngatan too.  The construction of Vaxholm castle on an islet just east of the town was originally ordered by Gustav Vasa in 1544, but most of the current structure dates from 1863. The castle was attacked by the Danes in 1612 and the Russian navy in 1719. Nowadays, it's home to the National Museum of Coastal Defence.  
europe_stuttgart_activities.html:  Activities  While Stuttgart's cultural attractions are certainly worth seeing, make sure to take advantage of all the outdoor activities this green city has to offer. Go wine tasting in some of the more than 500 local vineyards. Soak in a mineral spring, or swim in one of many open-air pools. Rent a bicycle and cruise along the Neckar - the ride to nearby Max-Eyth-See is a favorite with young Stuttgarters. Climb a staircase to hillside parks for spectacular views of the city. After a day of hiking and biking, relax with a Dinkel Acker in a beer garden, or check out one of the free operas or classical concerts in the Schillerplatz. Another attractive option: take a boat ride on the river for a sightseeing day trip or a romantic evening of dancing on deck.  
europe_stuttgart_attractions.html:  Attractions  Stuttgart's main square provides a crash course in architecture. Stand in the middle, beneath the König Wilhelm Jubilee column, flanked by fountains representing the eight rivers of Baden-Württemberg, then spin clockwise. The classical Königsbau is a focal point on warm evenings, when crowds gather to watch buskers perform amid its columns. Downstairs are shops, and upstairs, the city's Börse (stock exchange).  To the right is a fine example of 1950s architecture in the Olgabau, home to the Dresdner Bank. Further right is the Art Nouveau Kunstverein, which contains the municipal art gallery and the Württemberg Art Society. The Neues Schloss (New Palace), once the residence of kings Friedrich I and Wilhelm I, now houses the state finance and culture ministries. Begun in 1746 and completed in 1807, the Neues Schloss was destroyed during WWII. Painstaking restoration to its late-baroque/neoclassical splendor was completed in 1968.  At the western end of Schlossplatz is Alexander Calder's Mobile, a modern sculpture the city bought in 1981. There are concerts every Sunday in summer at the Musik Pavillon on the northwest corner of the square.  
europe_stuttgart_facts.html:  When to Go  Stuttgart's climate is milder than the climate in much of Germany, which accounts for the region's wine-growing success. But the winter months (November to March) are still quite chilly, so unless you're headed there for a specific festival, the best times to visit are between June and September. Expect big crowds in August during the Sommerfest and Weindorf, as well as during the Cannstatter Volksfest in September and October.     Events  Stuttgarters are avid music fans, and the year kicks off with the acclaimed Eclat New Music Festival (January/February) devoted to avant-garde composers. Fasnet, the Swabian version of Carnival, revels in its pagan origins, as celebrants dress as witches and ghosts in ancient wooden masks and participate in parades, dances and macabre rituals. The bizarre festivities intensify over six weeks, culminating on the Tuesday before Lent. The Jazzopen Festival in July features popular acts like Dave Brubeck, George Benson and Bebel Gilberto. The Bach Summer Academy, presented by the renowned International Bach Academy under the direction of Helmuth Rilling, draws large crowds of classical music lovers in early September.  Wine lovers descend upon the city during Weindorf, a 10-day celebration in which hundreds of local vintners showcase their wares (late August or early September). The Cannstatter Volksfest (People's Fair) is the event of the year, a 16-day beer festival held late September to early October and second only in size to Munich's Oktoberfest. In addition to copious quantities of beer, the Volksfest features fireworks, carnival rides, oompah music and Swabian specialties like Spätzle and Bretzel. The Christmas Market, which begins the last Thursday in November and runs until December 23, is a winter wonderland of local crafts, choirs, a children's village and hearty food and drink.    
europe_stuttgart_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This lovely town just 15km (9.3mi) from Stuttgart boasts a downtown scarcely changed from the Middle Ages, including half-timbered houses, a castle dating from the 16th century, and a 13th-century Lutheran church. Philosopher Friedrich Schelling was born here, and his ancestral home is one of the town's star attractions. The Steinhaus at the Upper Gate is the oldest building in Leonberg, dating from 1350. Situated at the gateway to the Black Forest, Leonberg is the perfect afternoon stop on the way to or from Stuttgart.  
europe_st_petersburg_activities.html:  Activities  In summer, a lovely way to while away a day is paddling through the canals and lakes on Yelagin Island. There are also rowing boat rentals at the northern end of the moat around the Peter & Paul Fortress. If you fancy going further afield, take a yacht up to the Gulf of Finland and plant your parasol on the beach. Winter can be just as active if you, like the Russians, enjoy cross-country skiing - Toksovo is a popular resort just north of St Petersburg. You can also try ice swimming, yes that's swimming in icy water (the Neva when it's frozen), if you want to go really local.  Forget the gym, Russians like to de-stress in a banya: a furnace-hot steam room in which they beat themselves and their friends with bundles of birch branches. If you'd rather play sport, the city has many clubs you can join. As for football, St P's team were a shameful lot in the early 1990s but under coach Anatoly Davydov's leadership, they won the 1998 Russian Cup, and made it to the nationals in 2001; you can watch them at the Petrovsky Stadium. Those who prefer smaller balls will be tripping over the numerous billiards places in the city.  
europe_st_petersburg_attractions.html:  Attractions  For 200 years the vast Russian empire was ruled from this half-kilometre block at St Petersburg's heart. This is one of Europe's great squares, lined with colourful yet elegant edifices and dotted with monuments commemorating Russia's victory over Napoleon. It witnessed Bloody Sunday in 1905, the Bolshevik's grab for power in 1917, and all-night vigils in the name of democracy during the 1991 coup.  The square is dominated by the green, white and gold rococo fantasy of the Winter Palace, residence of tsars from 1762 to 1917 and the largest part of the famous State Hermitage Museum. In the grey old days visitors came to the city for the museum alone and even today it could probably eat up a week of your precious time. The complex of buildings is the size of a small town - a map and compass are absolute essentials. Four linked riverside buildings - the Winter Palace, the Little and Large Hermitage buildings and the Hermitage Theatre - hold a vast collection of Western European art, with enough chandeliers, over-the-top interior encrustations and tsarist jewels and treasures to have you seeing stars for days. The collection largely dates from the culturally heightened days of Catherine the Great, and many works were gained when Napoleon's power began to wane.  Adjacent to the Winter Palace is the gilded spire of the Admiralty - a good landmark to use when you're out and about. This Empire-style classical building houses a naval college and is replete with trumpeting angels, oversized statues and fountains. In late 2000 funeral services were held here for past graduates of the college who died in the tragically sunk Kursk submarine.  
europe_st_petersburg_facts.html:  When to Go  St Petersburg is a year-round destination. The city's northern latitude means long days in summer and long nights in winter. In winter, hotels and tourist attractions are less crowded and, while some describe the weather merely as 'dark', there's a twinkling magic about the winter sky. And while the White Nights in mid-summer are undeniably beautiful, some people find it disconcerting to look out of a window and think it's about 8pm when it's really 3am.  Climate-wise, St Petersburg is much milder than its extreme northern latitude would suggest. January temperatures average -8 C (17 F); a really cold day will get down to -15 C (5 F). It's a windy city though and in some areas the wind chill is quite fierce, so bring a good warm hat and scarf. Summer is cool and takes a while to get going: snow in late April is not uncommon and the warm weather doesn't really start until the period between June and August, when temperatures reach 20 C (68 F). During these months the city is packed with foreign and Russian tourists.     Events  During the last 10 days of June, when night never falls, many St Petersburgers stay out celebrating White Nights all night, particularly at weekends. There's a White Nights Dance Festival with events ranging from folk to ballet, but the main Kirov company doesn't always take part, more often its students do.  Festivities during the Russian Winter Festival, 25 December to 5 January, and Goodbye Russian Winter, late February to early March, centre outside the city, with troyka (horse-drawn sleigh) rides, folk shows and performing bears. Less known are the Christmas Musical Meetings in Northern Palmyra, a classical musical festival held during the week before Christmas. The St Petersburg Music Spring, an international classical music festival held in April or May, and the mid-November international jazz festival, Osenie Ritmy (Autumn Rhythms), are built around St Petersburg's jazz clubs.    
europe_st_petersburg_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Leningrad Radio-Tele Broadcasting Centre's antenna is open to visitors. The 50,000-watt, 310m (1020ft) transmitter tower offers excellent views of the city and its environs, and there's an observation deck 200m (660ft) up the structure. The tower sways on windy days, and you can feel it! The construction of the tower was supervised by an all-female crew.  
europe_sweden_activities.html:  Activities  Getting out and about in Sweden is largely dictated by the weather. When winter hits, there is skating wherever the ice is thick enough. Stockholm's lake and canal system is exploited by the local children and enthusiasts seeking the longest possible 'run'. Downhill and cross-country skiing are popular at the resorts around Siljan and at the ski centres of Västmanland and Stockholm. Cycling around the flat lake country of Skåne or on Öland and Gotland islands becomes an especially attractive option when Sweden thaws out. If you'd rather be on the water, there are heaps of canoeing possibilities from the excellent areas on the lakes to the exciting northern river rapids.   Hiking and orienteering are popular everywhere, with many families forming orienteering teams for weekend competitions. Sareks National Park is probably Sweden's most spectacular area for hiking, but is recommended for experienced hikers only. Beach umbrellas may be less useful than ear muffs here, but Sweden does have some good swimming beaches, especially east of Uppsala. Diving is popular along the eastern coast where it's possible to swim close to the resident seal populations. Viewing the Northern Lights (Aurora Borealis) is most spectacular from the mountains in the north. And if this all sounds a bit ho-hum, there's talk of a sunken wreck somewhere off the southeastern coast laden with treasure from the Thirty Years War. Stop complaining about the price of a beer and go salvage!  
europe_sweden_attractions.html:  Attractions  The medieval town of Stockholm expanded along the Baltic Sea, where an archipelago of 24,000 islands, skerries and lumps of rock have protected it from the open seas, making it ideally situated for trade and maritime activities. Most of the land masses are uninhabited, although the popularity of the area for boating means it can be hard finding anchorage in high summer. The Stockholm archipelago endures up to 20cm (8in) of ice through most of the winter. The city is best seen from the water, but you'll enjoy seeing the parklands of Djurgården or the alleys of Gamla Stan on foot.   Gamla Stan, situated on the island of Stadsholmen, is Stockholm's old town, which emerged in the 13th century. Its medieval streets are linked by a fantasy of lanes, arches and stairways. The present Royal Palace was completed in 1760, replacing the original, which was burned down in the 17th century. Today its apartments and armoury offer an excellent insight into the past. East of the city, the larger island of Djurgården offers wonderful parklands and a concentration of fine museums. One not to miss is Skansen, the world's first open-air museum, where exhibits from all over Sweden give it a rural feel. Skansen also includes a zoo, aquarium, forestry pavilion and a tobacco museum. On the western shore of Djurgården is the famous Vasamuseet, which grants you a look into the lives of 17th-century sailors. It's also a brilliant achievement in marine archaeology.  There are a number of hostels in central Stockholm, but the boat hostels moored at Skeppsholmen and south of Gamla Stan are increasingly popular. The city centre has a number of inexpensive to mid-priced restaurants offering a good variety of meals. Kungsgatan, east of the city centre, is the place to point your dancing shoes.  
europe_sweden_environment.html:  Environment  Sweden is the biggest sausage in the Scandinavian sizzle, covering an area of 450,000 sq km (175,500 sq mi). The dominant characteristics of the landscape can be attributed to glacial activity. The 7000km-long (4330mi) coastline, particularly in the west and near Stockholm, is constantly cut by fjords (long, narrow sea inlets). Lubbers rue that it doesn't get much drier inland, with about 100,000 lakes plugged into Sweden. The islands of Öland and Gotland, south of Stockholm, consist of flat limestone, but they're sand-fringed and have been turned into beachy retreats for urban escapees. Norrland (a practical term for the northern 60% of the country) is sparsely populated, comprising a near uniform expanse of forest, river and rapid. Norway provides a natural frontier to the west on the other side of Skanderna, Sweden's modest mountain range. Sweden's highest peak is the glacier-capped northern peak of Mt Kebnekaise at 2111m (6924ft).  Moose, deer and fox are common throughout Sweden and, of all Sweden's wild creatures, these are the ones you're most likely to spot, though hopefully not as they come through your windscreen. Wolf, lynx and brown bear populations have suffered at the hands of encroaching agriculture and eager hunters, but are making a comeback in some western provinces and the mountain regions. Wolverine survive in the mountains only by preying on domestic livestock, making no friends with farmers in their fight against extinction. Varied bird life twitters, flutters and swoops from seaside to snowline, with the kingfisher perhaps the most beautiful, and the woodpecker the best at carpentry. The northern lakes and streams are choice places to spot Sweden's fisherfolk boasting about big 'uns of the salmon trout clan.  Sunshine junkies should visit Sweden between late May and late July, scooting out before the August rains. Monthly average temperatures in Stockholm are highest in July at about 22 C (70 F), when you can rely on nine hours of tan time. The average temperature in the northernmost mountains at this time is about 11 C (52 F), but you should be prepared for occasional sub-zero temperatures and snow falls, even in summer; the range of temperatures north of the Gulf of Bothnia is almost 30 C (86 F). Sweden's northern latitude means that it never gets really dark from mid-May to late July, with the trade-off being a pervasive December dimness. Annual rainfall is greatest around Gothenburg at well over 700mm (28in) and falls mainly as snow in Lapland, blanketing the region for 200 days of the year. Many coastal ports are frozen all winter, while the Stockholm archipelago can be iced in for a couple of months.  
europe_sweden_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Stays of up to 90 days (unlimited for Nordic citizens) are usually visa free, but South Africans, Hong Kong residents with Chinese passports and residents of many African, Asian, South American and some Eastern European countries should check requirements with Swedish embassies.Health risks: NoneTime: GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity: 220V 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 6 million visitors per year When to Go  If you want sunshine, visit between late May and late July, bearing in mind that August can be both hot and wet. Many youth hostels, camping grounds and attractions open only in summer, from late June to mid-August. Summer in Sweden can be hot, sunny and beautiful, but travel in winter should be better planned and restricted. Big cities are in full swing all year-round.     Events   Midsummer, held at summer solstice, is Sweden's most enthusiastically celebrated festival. Pagan rites, such as maypole dancing, mingle with public holiday tie-loosening and liberal helpings of schnapps. The Lucia festival (13 December) has only been celebrated for about 60 years but has become very popular. As well as commemorating the martyrdom of a pious Sicilian girl, Lucia celebrates the coming of Christmas with processions of robed youngsters, plenty of glögg (a hot alcoholic fruit's punch) for the grownups, and singing. Christmas trees are decorated with straw animals and stars, cookie baking begins, and Santa Claus makes his final assessments of children's behaviour and does the last minute shopping. Santa obviously favours Swedish kids as he delivers presents in person rather than just chucking them down the chimney. Most households serve up ham at Christmas time, and many families still partake in the tradition of 'dipping in the pot' when slices of bread are soaked in ham juices.   New Year's Eve is a highly social time when friends get together, often setting off fireworks. Easter in Sweden incorporates the pagan belief that witches hang out with the devil in hell for the duration. Kids dressed up as witches doorknock houses in their neighbourhood, scamming lollies in exchange for drawings. Walpurgis Night (30 April) is a pagan festival celebrating the end of winter with bonfires and fireworks. May Day (1 May) is observed by marches and labour movement events.    
europe_sweden_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The village of Jokkmokk (D lvaddis in Samish), just north of the Arctic Circle, started as a Sami market and mission, and is now a centre of revitalised Sami culture. The Sami winter fair takes place the first three days from the first Thursday in February, when you can shop seriously for handicrafts (S mi duodji) worked in the traditional bold blue, red and yellow. There's a museum here with excellent information on the mountainous interior, should you be thinking of plunging further north, and a restaurant which does a nice line in reindeer sandwiches.  Jokkmokk is a good place to come and see the midnight sun, but don't let your enthusiasm outdo your eyesight: the sun is always dangerous to look at. Summer visitors who are particularly brave pretend to enjoy a bracing dip in the river; the more sensible stick to dangling trout lines in Jokkmokk's central lake. Jokkmokk is relatively isolated, and you should book accommodation well in advance if arriving at winter fair time. Public transport access is via the Inlandsbanan rail connection: get off at nearby Malmbanan and take the bus.  
europe_switzerland_activities.html:  Activities  The mountains and lakes of Switzerland are a natural playground. There are dozens of ski resorts throughout the Alps, the Pre-Alps and the Jura. Zermatt and Verbier have the best combination of slopes, scenery and nightlife. Hiking is the number-one activity in the country, with 50,000km of designated footpaths and regular refreshment stops en route. There are well-established mountaineering schools in Pontresina and Meiringen, though Zermatt is perhaps the most famous destination for experienced mountaineers. Ski mountaineering is popular along the Haute Route in Valais. Many of the resorts also offer paragliding and hang-gliding and hire out the gear. Water-skiing, sailing and windsurfing are common on most lakes. Rafting is possible on many alpine rivers, including the Rhine and the Saane. Canoeing is mainly centred on the Muota in Schwyz canton and on the Doubs River in the Jura.  
europe_switzerland_attractions.html:  Attractions  Switzerland's most populous city is reputed to be the intellectual and cultural capital of the nation. It's most famous burst of creativity came in 1916 when the Dada art movement emerged from the Cabaret Voltaire - strangely enough at exactly the same time those playful dudes Lenin and Trotsky were also in residence. Today the city is more famous for its pinstriped gnomes and art galleries, and for the way it manages to balance finance and aesthetics better than anyone but Sothebys.  The city is situated some 400m above sea level, straddling the Limmat River as it leaves the northern end of Lake Zürich. The pedestrian streets of the old town contain most of the major sights, including winding alleyways, 16th- and 17th-century houses, guildhalls and courtyards, and rather a lot of fountains (1030 if you're taking notes).   The elegant Bahnhofstrasse was built on the site of the city walls, which were torn down 150 years ago. Underfoot are bank vaults crammed with gold and silver and other booty - unfortunately these are not open to the public (we can't figure out why). For the clock-watchers, the 13th-century tower of St Peter's Church has the largest clock face in Europe. The Fraumünster Church nearby is noted for the distinctive stained-glass windows in the choir, which were created by Marc Chagall in 1970 at the ripe old age of 83.  The Museum of Fine Arts has a large permanent collection ranging from 15th-century religious art to the 'modern' art of Monet, Manet and Man Ray. The Swiss National Museum, housed in a pseudo-castle north of the city centre, provides the ultimate rundown on the life and times of the Swiss nation and, just in case you forgot you were in Switzerland, has an interesting section on book-inscribing in the Middle Ages. When the culture vulture in you can't take any more, there are pleasant pathways along the shores of Lake Zürich that pass picnic, sunbathing and swimming spots.  Hostels are located on the perimeter of the city centre and there are a few budget hotels on the east bank of Limmat River. Accommodation can be a problem during the summer months, so book ahead if possible. Nightlife is centred on the streets around Niederdorfstrasse. This is also a red-light district. Don't be alarmed if you stumble bleary-eyed out of a club on Sunday morning to be met by devout parishioners parading through the sin-sodden streets singing hymns to anyone who will listen.  
europe_switzerland_environment.html:  Environment  Switzerland sits squarely in the stomach of western Europe, landlocked by France, Germany, Liechtenstein, Austria and Italy. The Alps occupy the central and southern regions of the country and the modest Jura Mountains straddle the border with France in the north-east. The Bernese Mittelland - an area of hills, rivers and winding valleys - lies between the two mountain systems and has spawned Switzerland's most populous cities. Over 60% of the country is mountainous and a quarter of it is covered in forests. Farming of cultivated land is intensive and cows graze in Alpine meadows as soon as the retreating snow line permits. The Dufour summit (4634m) of Monte Rosa is the highest peak, though the Matterhorn (4478m) is more well known.  Climatic variations mean that vegetation ranges from palm trees in Ticino to delicate alpine flora in the mountains. There are plenty of conifer forests in the mountains, but as altitude increases these are replaced by bushes, scrub and pretty alpine meadows. The most famous and distinctive alpine animals are the ibex (a mountain goat with huge curved horns) and the chamois (a horned antelope good at cleaning cars). Despite strong environmental legislation, birdlife is on the retreat in Switzerland - 81 species are currently threatened with extinction.  The mountains are mainly responsible for the variety of local and regional microclimates. Ticino in the south has a hot, Mediterranean climate, but most of the rest of the country has a central European climate, with temperatures typically between 20 and 25 C in summer (June to September) and between 2 and 6 C in winter (November to March). Travellers need to be prepared for a range of temperatures dependent on altitude. There is perennial snow cover at altitudes above 3000m. Summer is the most pleasant time for outdoor pursuits (with the exception of skiing). Strong winds from the south, known as the Föhn, bring high temperatures (and sometimes red dust from the Sahara) and are a major cause of avalanches.  
europe_switzerland_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, South Africa, the UK and the USA do not require a visa. A maximum stay of three months applies though passports are rarely stampedHealth risks: Altitude sickness, hypothermia & sunburnTime: GMT/UTC plus one hourElectricity: 220 volts, 50HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 11 million visitors annually When to Go  You can visit Switzerland any time throughout the year. Summer lasts roughly from June to September, and offers the most pleasant climate for outdoor pursuits. Unfortunately, you won't be the only tourist during this period, so prices can be high, accommodation hard to find and the mainstream sights crowded. You'll find much better deals and fewer crowds in the shoulder seasons of April-May and late-September-October.   If you're keen on winter sports, resorts in the Alps begin operating in late-November, move into full swing around Christmas, and close down when the snow begins to melt in April.     Events  February is carnival time, or Fasnacht, in many towns, but Basel really funks it up with elaborate parades beginning at a bleary 4 am. In the lower Valais, from March to October, cows battle it out in the Combat de Reines (cow fighting) to see which beast is most suited to lead the herd up to the summer pastures. The world-renowned Montreux Jazz Festival takes place in July. National Day (August 1) is celebrated with fireworks throughout the country, and Swiss wrestling in the Emmenthal area east of Bern. On the fourth Monday in November, Bern hosts its famous onion market (Zibelmarit), where traders take over the whole town centre and many a tear is shed.    
europe_switzerland_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The relatively low-lying canton of Ticino, situated south of the Alps, enjoys a Mediterranean climate and imports a distinctive Italian flavour to Switzerland. The village of Ascona on the shore of Lake Maggiore is a regional centre for the arts and its backstreets are filled with art galleries and craft shops. The community of artists and intellectuals living here at the beginning of the century embraced the 'back to nature' movement and welcomed the exiled Lenin for a time. The Museo Comunale D'Arte Moderna includes paintings by artists connected with the town, among them Paul Klee, Hans Arp, Ben Nicholson and Alexej Jawlensky.  
europe_ukraine_activities.html:  Activities  The best prospects for hiking, trekking and camping are in Crimea and the Carpathians in the south-west, along with a few scattered national parks. In south-west Crimea, easy hikes lead to the cave cities of Chuft-Kale and Manhup-Kale. Other Crimean trekking highlights include the 300m (985ft) Bolshoy Kanyon and the Dzhur-Dzhur and Uchansu waterfalls. With a good map you can walk anywhere in the Carpathians, where most of the territory is uninhabited and very scenic. A good place to start is the Carpathian State National Park, about 55km (35mi) south-west of Kolomyya and 500km (310mi) south-west of Kiev. Boat trips down the Dnipro from Kiev to Odessa are a fun and relaxing way to see the country.  
europe_ukraine_attractions.html:  Attractions  Founded in the 5th century, Kiev is the mother city of Ukraine, Russia and Belarus. All three descended from Kievan Rus, the Slavic super-state that existed from the 9th to the 11th centuries. Since then, Kiev has survived Mongol invasions, devastating fires, communist urban planning and the massive destruction of WWII. The Old Town is concentrated around the north-eastern end of vulitsya Volodymyrska and contains a number of Kiev's historic landmarks. The main attraction is the 11th century St Sophia Cathedral, the city's oldest standing church, which contains some of the country's greatest mosaics and frescoes. A few blocks south of the cathedral is Kiev's main commercial promenade, the vulitsya Khreshchatyk, a bustling thoroughfare lined with shops. At the southern end of Khreshchatyk, the aisles at the Bessarabsky Market are filled with fruit and vegetable vendors. Old Town is within walking distance of central Kiev.   Andriyivsky vzviz, Kiev's most charming street, winds its way north from Old Town to the base of the Podil district, the historic merchants' quarter and river port. Andriyivsky is lined with galleries, shops, restaurants and cafes. The heart of Podil is the Kontraktova ploshcha, a park-like square named for the large, white arcaded Kontraktova Dim (House of Contracts) occupying the centre. Dating from 1817, the building is now filled with restaurants, galleries and businesses. A few blocks to the north-west is the chilling but fascinating Chernobyl Museum, where exhibits document the worst nuclear disaster in history - bringing home the fact that it happened only 100km (62mi) to the north. A few blocks west is the oldest standing structure in Podil, the 1631 Church of Mykola Prytysko. Its whitewashed, green-roofed exterior is a lovely example of early Ukrainian Baroque architecture.  South of Old Town along the river is the Pechersk district, the historic ecclesiastical centre and site of the Caves Monastery, founded in 1051. Spread across wooded slopes above the Dnipro a few kilometres south of the city centre, the monastery is a collection of gold-domed churches, underground labyrinths lined with mummified monks, and elegant monastic buildings turned into museums, one of which is packed with Scythian gold. The Dormition Cathedral, part of the monastery complex, dates from the late 11th century. Despite being partially destroyed by the Red Army during WWII, it's one of the country's greatest Baroque religious buildings. To the north of the cathedral is the Historical Treasures Museum, devoted mainly to artefacts and precious stones and metals from Ukraine. The highlight is the display of Scythian goldwork from the 4th century BC. There's also a 12th century model of Kiev and exhibits of richly ornamented goblets, crosses, chalices and icons by Ukrainian, Russian, Polish and Lithuanian masters. City buses connect the Pechersk district with downtown Kiev.  The Folk Architecture Museum is 12km (7mi) south of the city centre but well worth the trip. Spread out over scenic rolling hills dotted with groves of trees are a large number of 17th to 20th century wooden cottages, churches, farmsteads and windmills, many with beautiful gardens and preserved interior furnishings. The museum is divided into seven small villages representing regional traditions, and there are some good restaurants, a gift shop and special events. You can make the trip from downtown Kiev by city bus.  
europe_ukraine_environment.html:  Environment  After Russia, Ukraine is the largest country in Europe, just edging out France. It's bordered by Russia to the east and north; Belarus to the north; Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Moldova to the west; and large stretches of the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov to the south. Ukraine's topography consists almost entirely of steppe - gently rolling, partially wooded plains. The horizon is broken by a belt of highland running from the north-west to the south-east, but the only serious mountains are a short stretch of the Carpathians in the far west and the Crimeans in the far south. There are forests and some scattered marshlands in the north; in the south the steppe is open and sparsely wooded. Nearly 3000 rivers flow through Ukraine.  Formerly known as 'the breadbasket of the USSR', over half the country is covered in fields of wheat, barley, rye, oats and sugar beets. A central 'black belt' of humus-rich soil - one of the world's most fertile regions - covers nearly two-thirds of Ukraine. Large tracts are set aside as grazing land, and in spring they explode into brilliant, swaying seas of maky (red poppies), sonyashnyky (sunflowers) and golden mustard. Breaking up the flat, heavily cultivated grasslands are a few patches of oak, maple, linden and ash forests. Willow and aspen grow along the rivers. A thin belt of forest runs across the north of the country, consisting mostly of silver fir, beech, oak and spruce.  The creatures you see most often are the white geese and ducks that spot the green and black earth and fill countless ponds all over the countryside. Ukraine's diverse animal life includes wolves, foxes, martens and gazelles (all keeping mostly to mountain woodlands); over 350 species of birds, the secret messengers of many folk songs and fairy tales; and over 200 species of freshwater fish.  Inland Ukraine has a relatively moderate continental climate. The hottest month is July, when the daily high averages 23 C (73 F), while January, the coldest month, averages around freezing. The eastern areas catch a few of the chilling Siberian breezes, while the west gets the tail end of warm Mediterranean winds. On the coast, Yalta and Odessa are generally a few degrees warmer than the inland areas; in winter they rarely dip below freezing during the day. Inland, June and July are the wettest months; the coast experiences most of its limited rainfall during December and January.  
europe_ukraine_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors need visas. 'Emergency' visas good for 72 hours are available at border posts, and a one month visa can be obtained on arrival at Kiev's Boryspil Airport.Health risks: Cholera, diphtheria, tick-borne encephalitis, Lyme diseaseTime:GMT/UTC plus 2 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to go to Ukraine is in spring (late April to early June), when the trees and flowers are in bloom. During this season attractions are less crowded and rainfall is lighter than in summer. The beaches at Odessa and Crimea are packed in summer (July and August). Winter (December and January) is cold and snowy, so travellers should be prepared to don thick wool sweaters and eat their vegetables pickled.     Events  Ukrainians place gifts under fir trees and sing holiday songs for New Year's Day. The country celebrates Orthodox Christmas Day on 7 January. Paskha (Easter) is the main festival of the Orthodox Church year, beginning with midnight services and continuing with parades around village churches throughout the country. In Lviv, the National Virtuoso fills the month of May with musical and theatrical performances focussing on national themes. The capital celebrates spring during Kiev Days, held the last weekend in May. In August, Crimea fetes itself at Yalta's Crimean Stars. On 28 August, religious pilgrims flock to the monastery in Pochayiv for the Feast of the Assumption. Cities and towns honour Independence Day on 24 August with performances and special events.    
europe_ukraine_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If a visit to the Caves Monastery in Kiev leaves you thirsting for more in the ecclesiastical vein, the monastery in Pochayiv is the second largest in the country. The site is sacred to all devout Ukrainians and is flooded with pilgrims during religious festivals. The main Uspensky Cathedral (1771-83) is an overwhelming Baroque affair. Its interior, able to hold over 6000 people, is a breathtaking expression of Orthodox iconography - nearly every surface is lavishly and masterfully painted and gilded with saints and patriarchs. The 1597 Mother of God icon is believed to have protective powers.  Built over 100 years earlier, the gold-domed Holy Trinity Cathedral nearby is smaller and darker, with massive pillars and thick vaults beneath a deep cupola creating a quiet atmosphere of weighty spiritualism. Directly west of the Holy Trinity Cathedral is the mid-19th century bell tower, a 65m (215ft) Baroque structure with a fine view and a 11,180kg (11 ton) bell. Pochayiv is in the middle of Western Ukraine, 300km (185mi) west of Kiev. There's a bus depot just west of the monastery grounds where buses arrive from Kremenets (40 minutes), Ternopil (2 hours) and Lviv (6 hours).  
europe_venice_activities.html:  Activities  Being as tightly packed as the city is, Venice does not make an ideal place to come to practise your favourite sport. Just walking around and up and down bridges means that you're likely to be getting a pretty good workout! If you've got any energy left after all that walking, try a spot of swimming off the Lido (if you're game) or at one of Venice's two public swimming pools (they close in summer). In case you want to emulate Julia Roberts in Everybody Says I Love You and do some jogging - as if! - try the Giardini Pubblici or Isola di Sant'Elena in Castello. You could indulge in a spot of rowing at Venice's oldest club, Reale Societa Canottieri Bucintoro. There are also a few small gyms where you can pump some iron and hit the treadmill. Alternatively, you can stay indoors and do some courses: choose from Italiano, cooking, history, art and music.  
europe_venice_attractions.html:  Attractions  St Mark's has to be one of the most spectacular houses of worship in the world, attesting to the Venetian Republic's former maritime and commercial might. Adorned with an incredible array of plundered treasures, the seething mass of domes and arches was modelled on Constantinople's Church of the Twelve Apostles and consecrated in 1094. The basilica is famous for its golden mosaics, particularly those above the doorways in the facade and decorating the interior domes. The interior is indeed dazzling: if you can take your eyes off the glitter of the mosaics, take time to admire the 12th-century marble pavement.  The basilica's many treasures include the gleaming Pala d'Oro altarpiece of gold, enamel and precious jewels. The Tesoro (Treasury) contains most of the booty from the 1204 raid on Constantinople, including a thorn said to have come from the crown worn by Christ. On the loggia above the main door are copies of the delightful prancing horses that were also hijacked from Constantinople (the gilded-bronze originals are on display inside). The basilica's 10th-century campanile collapsed without warning on 14 July 1902, and was rebuilt brick by brick over the following 10 years. Take the lift to the top for some fabulous views over the rooftops and lagoon.  
europe_venice_facts.html:  When to Go  It's almost always high season in Venice, although the city is busiest in spring (Easter-June) and Sept-Oct. Accommodation can be hard to find then, as well as around Christmas-New Year and Carnevale (February). Like Italy's other great tourist hubs, Venice is at its worst in high summer (June-August): it's crowded, oppresively hot and sticky. The most pleasant time of year to visit is late March into May, with clear spring days and comparatively fewer crowds. September is the next best in terms of weather, but October is quieter. Flooding occurs in November and December, and winter can be unpleasantly cold - but seeing Venice under snow is the stuff of fairy tales.     Events  The year kicks off with the Regatta delle Befane, the first of the lagoon city's 100-plus regattas, held on 6 January (Epiphany). The major event of the Venetian calendar is February's bewigged, bemasked and berobed Carnevale, the event that's spawned a million pastel postcards of pierrots and columbines looking unduly pensive. In May there's the Festa della Sensa (Feast of the Ascension), when Venice celebrates the Sposalizio del Mar (Wedding with the Sea). The Venezia Biennale arts fest is held every odd-numbered year in June in the pavilions of the Giardini Pubblici. July's Festa del Redentore is another highlight, with a regatta and fireworks festival. The Venice International Film Festival, Italy's version of Cannes, is held annually in August at the Palazzo del Cinema on the Lido. The Regatta Storica in September is a historic gondola race along the Grand Canal that's well worth catching. November's Festa della Madonna della Salute procession crosses the Grand Canal via a bridge of boats.  Venice's public holidays include Liberation Day (25 April), Labour Day (1 May), the Feast of the Assumption (15 August), All Saints' Day (1 November) and the Feast of the Immaculate Conception (8 December).    
europe_venice_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Murano and Burano are the best-known and most-visited of the lagoon's islands, and both reward a wander into their quiet backstreets. Sleepy Murano has long been famed for its glass production - since the 10th century, in fact, when the secrets of the art were smuggled into Venice by merchants trading in the East. Once ensconced in Murano, the methods of the craft became such a well-guarded secret that it was considered treason for glassworkers to leave the city. You can still catch the odd glassworker in action in shops and factories around the island, but whether your opinion of the end result is 'beautiful' or 'grotesque' is a matter of taste. The Museo Vetrario is devoted to the art and history of glasswork, and there are some exquisite pieces on display. The island's architectural highlight is the Veneto-Byzantine Basilica di SS Maria e Donato, with its colonnaded apse and 12th-century mosaic pavement. Vaporetto No 12 takes you to Murano, Burano and Torcello.  
europe_vienna_activities.html:  Activities  The rolling hills and marked trails of the Wienerwald are perfect for hiking. Tourist guides conduct around 40 different guided walking tours of the city, covering everything from Art Nouveau architecture to Viennese Jewish traditions. The Prater also has a wood with walking trails, and of course it's the place to go for a ride on the city's much-photographed Ferris wheel (Riesenrad). Cycling is a popular activity, especially along the banks of the Danube. There are plenty of swimming options, from indoor and outdoor pools to nude beaches on both banks of the New Danube (Neue Donau). Both the Old Danube and the New Danube provide opportunities for water sports such as sailing and rowing, windsurfing and water skiing.  
europe_vienna_attractions.html:  Attractions  The huge Hofburg (Imperial Palace) is an awesome repository of culture and heritage. The Habsburgs set up house here for more than six centuries, periodically adding new sections to create the current jumble of styles and massive dimensions. The oldest part is the Schweizerhof (Swiss Courtyard), dating from the 13th century and named after the Swiss guards who used to protect its precincts. The most active phase of building was carried out from the second half of the 19th century to WWI. The curvaceous Neue Burg, from which Hitler addressed a rally during his triumphant 1938 visit to Vienna, dates from this time.  The 22 rooms in the Kaiserappartements (Imperial Apartments) are packed with all the fine furniture, tapestries and bulbous crystal chandeliers you'd expect. The sheer wealth exhibited in the Schatzkammer (Imperial Treasury) collection of crown jewels is staggering: one room contains a 2860-carat Colombian emerald, a 416-carat balas ruby and a 492-carat aquamarine. The religious relics include supposed fragments of the True Cross, a nail from the Crucifixion and a thorn from Christ's crown. The complex is rich in museums: the Sammlung Alter Musikinstrumente (Collection of Ancient Musical Instruments), exhibiting instruments of all shapes and sizes; the Museum für Völkerkunde (Ethnological Museum), with displays on non-European cultures; and the Albertina, a famous and extensive collection of graphic arts. The Gothic Burgkapelle (Royal Chapel) is where the Vienna Boys' Choir sings at Sunday Mass.  
europe_vienna_facts.html:  When to Go  There's almost always something happening in Vienna, making it a year-round destination. Weatherwise you might want to miss January's chill, and July and August's heat - you won't be able to see the Lipizzaners and the Boys' Choir in those summer months anyway. June and September are particularly good times to visit, though you'll find that everyone else thinks so too, making things somewhat busy. As always, it's a good idea to opt for the less-crowded spring/autumn shoulder months of April-May and October-November.     Events  Vienna celebrates its rich musical history year round with a surfeit of musical styles, although Mozart, who had his most productive years here, naturally enough features heavily. The Viennese year kicks off with sumptuous costumed balls in January and February. Classical music takes over in March with the month-long Spring Festival and Easter's OsterKlang Festival. The Vienna Marathon is run in May, and the year's cultural highlight is the month-long Vienna Festival (mid-May to mid-June), featuring a wide-ranging program of the arts. Musical events pop up all over the city during the July-August KlangBogen Festival, Opera Film Festival and International Dance Festival. Trade fairs come to town in September, and October features the annual Viennale Film Festival. November's Wien Modern festival focuses on avant-garde music for a change, and the year winds up with the traditional Christmas market ( Christkindlmarkt) held in front of the Rathaus.  Vienna's public holidays are New Year's Day (1 January), Epiphany (6 January), Easter Monday (March/April), Labour Day (1 May), Ascension Day (40 days after Easter), Whit Monday, Corpus Christi, Assumption (15 August), National Day (26 October), All Saints' Day (1 November), Immaculate Conception (8 December), Christmas Day (25 December) and St Stephen's Day (26 December). Some people also take a holiday on Good Friday.    
europe_vienna_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Some of the best day trips out of Vienna take in the small towns and villages that line the Danube. Such a town is peaceful Krems, which reclines along the river's northern banks, surrounded by the terraced vineyards that for centuries have been its mainstay. There's not a heap to do in Krems other than take a quiet wander by the cobbled streets, empty courtyards, baroque churches and atmospheric city walls. And of course wine-tasting is a very popular activity in this part of the world. You can get to Krems by train (60 minutes), boat (two hours) or bicycle. The boat trip from Krems to the monastery town of Melk is a regional highlight.  
europe_wales_activities.html:  Activities  Wales vigorously promotes itself as the place to come for an activity-based holiday. Perhaps the most obvious activity is the country's popular network of walks. The most challenging are around the rocky Snowdonia or the moody Brecon Beacons national parks. Wales has seven long-distance walks, the most famous being the Pembrokeshire Coast Path and Offa's Dyke Path. Slightly less busy are the 274-mile (441km) Cambrian Way and the 120-mile (193km) Glyndwr's Way. Pony trekking opportunities are found throughout Wales, in particular around the Pembrokeshire Coast and Brecon Beacon national parks. Cyclers will experience quiet roads and the odd strenuous hill by cycling through the Cambrian and Black mountains or the Brecon Beacons; the Pembrokeshire coast has flatter terrain.  Wales' south-west coast has a number of passable surfing spots, including Porthcawl, Oxwich Bay, Rhossili, Manorbier, Freshwater West and Whitesands. Canoeing and white-water rafting are good in Snowdonia, and Llangollen on the River Dee has a reputation as a canoeing centre. Canal cruising along the Monmouthshire & Brecon Canal is a breeze, partly because there are only six locks along its 33-mile (53km) length. Spelunkers can head for the Brecon Beacons, where there are several limestone cave systems.  
europe_wales_attractions.html:  Attractions  A busy commercial and university city, the Welsh capital doesn't usually appear near the top of visitors' must-see lists. However, those who linger will discover its striking city-centre castle, important national museum and art gallery, redeveloped docks area and pockets of beautiful architecture. Don't miss also the Millennium Stadium, opened in 1999 and home to Weslh Rugby. It's also the temporary venue for major English football matches. Cardiff is a good place to base yourself because it's surrounded by interesting sites and transport links are good.  Cardiff has a good selection of B&B accommodations, sprinkled along Cathedral Rd, to the west of the city centre, and on Newport Rd to the east. Purveyors of Welsh specialties such as rarebit (the Welsh version of cheese on toast) and laverbread (a nicer-than-you'd-think seaweed concoction) can be found in the city centre, along with coffee shops and bistros serving more usual fare. Rugby is Cardiff's most popular form of entertainment, but there's also theatre, an arts centre and a pop arena for those who want to avoid the scrum.  
europe_wales_environment.html:  Environment  Surrounded by sea on three sides, Wales' border with England (to the east) still runs roughly along Offa's Dyke, the giant earthwork constructed in the 8th century. Wales has two major mountain systems: the Black Mountains and Brecon Beacons in the south, and the mountains of Snowdonia in the northwest. These glaciated mountain areas are deeply cut by narrow river valleys. Rolling moorlands stretch from Denbigh in the north to the Glamorgan valleys in the south, ending on the west coast in spectacular cliffs. The population is concentrated in the southeast, along the coast between Cardiff and Swansea and in the valleys that run north into the Beacons.  Much of Wales was once covered by forest, mainly sessile oak, but very little remains. Most has been cleared for agriculture or chopped down for shipbuilding, charcoal building and mine construction. Overgrazing and the introduction of wild rhododendron bushes has made it hard for any native forest to reseed. Native ash are much more common than oaks, growing along rivers, and in their shade you'll find primoses, violets and orchids. Wild cherry trees and field maples are also common. Fragile Arctic plants like the unique Snowdon lily grow among the country's mountains.  Seabirds love Wales' lengthy coastline - the country has 30% of the world's manx shearwaters and Grassholm has one of the world's largest gannet colonies. Inland you'll find the only red kites left in Britain, as well as the greater horseshoe bat, confined to Wales and fragments of England. Red squirrels are holding out in parts of the country and there's a colony of grey seals breeding on the west coast.  It's probably fair to say that Wales suffers from an excess of rainfall, with water falling from the sky all year round. Westerly and south-westerly winds can also make life pretty miserable. That said, the closeness of the mountains to the coast means that you can encounter very different climatic conditions withing short distances. Temperatures in Cardiff get up to 20 C (68 F) at the height of summer (August), but rarely drop below freezing even in the depths of winter (January).  
europe_wales_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: EU citizens may live and work free of any immigration controls. Citizens of the USA, Canada, Australia, South Africa and New Zealand are generally allowed to stay six months without a visa.Health risks: NoneTime: GMT/UTCElectricity: 240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric (except beer, which is measured in pints) When to Go  Spring and autumn are probably the best times to visit Wales if you want to avoid the July and August crowds. It's even less busy in winter, but many attractions close in mid-October and don't reopen until Easter. Some mountain passes can be snowbound in winter.     Events  Wales wouldn't be Wales without eisteddfodau. The big one is the Royal National Eisteddfodd of Wales, a moveable show held in early August, but you could also try the International Eisteddfod, held in Llangollen every July, or the Urdd (Youth) Eisteddfod held in May. Wales' yearly festival of cows and ploughs, the Royal Welsh Agricultural Show, is on at Llanelwedd in mid-July.    
europe_wales_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Hay-on-Wye has sloping lanes, Norman and Jacobean ruins, a market-town buzz and the world's largest collection of second-hand bookstores. Publicity stunts such as its 1977 declaration of independence from Britain and its vigorous self-promotion make this border market town like no other. There are more than 30 bookshops, some specialising in subjects so esoteric they can't be categorised, as well as auctions and out-of-print book search services. Not the place to go if your backpack's already gouging highways across your shoulder blades.  
europe_york_activities.html:  Activities  York offers a swag of specialised walking tours, whether your poison is ghosts, Romans, alleyways, scholarly history or Yorkshire bitter. For something less rigorous, take a river cruise on the Ouse, or shop for York Minster snow domes in the Shambles and antiquarian oddities in the bookshops of Micklegate and Fossgate.  
europe_york_attractions.html:  Attractions  The minster dominates York's landscape and psyche, and is proudly marketed as the largest Gothic cathedral in northern Europe. The building's foundations reveal the site's ancient history, including evidence of the original assembly hall that lay at the heart of the Romans' military headquarters; the wooden chapel built for bishop Paulinus' baptism of King Edwin in 627; a subsequent stone church; the church destroyed by William the Conqueror during his 'harrying of the North'; and a Norman church dating from around 1060. The structure's historical significance is more than matched by its world-beating collection of stained glass, most notably the fabled Great East Window (1408), the largest medieval stained-glass window on the planet.  Today's multistyled structure incorporates the Early English northern transept (1241-60); the Decorated-style nave, choir and octagonal chapter house (1260-1405); and, at the cathedral's heart, the perpendicular-style lantern tower (1460-80). More-recent amendments were made following the disastrous fire of 1984, which severely damaged the south transept; the minster was also damaged by fire in 1829 and 1840. York Minster is imbued with the specially charged atmosphere shared by large historic buildings, and there's a wealth of tiny details to search for, from tiny cherubs to feudal shields and dragon's heads. The 275-step climb to the top of the lantern tower is rewarded with a bird's-eye view of York. The best views of the minster itself can be gained by ambling along the stretch of city wall from Bootham Bar to Monk Bar (the latter retaining its portcullis).  
europe_york_facts.html:  When to Go  A visit to York is best rewarded in April-June and September-October. Do what you can to avoid July-August, as the city deteriorates into a shambles of demented tourism in the high summer months. November-February are cold, dark and grim - and bring your brolly and woollies any time of year.     Events  York celebrates a handful of typically idiosyncratic events. February's Jorvik Viking Festival harks back to the city's Danish past, complete with a longships regatta, torchlit procession, boat burning and fireworks. The annual Early Music Festival hits town in June. York is transformed into the Ascot of the north for the three-day Ebor Meeting in August, held at Knavesmire on the edge of town. Every four years the city hosts the medieval York Cycle of Mystery Plays (coming round again in 2002). Christmas is heralded with the St Nicholas Fayre, 23-26 November, with traditional food, antique fairs and street theatre.    
europe_york_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  York boasted 41 churches before Henry VIII gave monasteries the flick back in 1535. Of these, an unexpected 20 still survive, many with their exquisite stained-glass windows intact and all offering the travel-weary a place to rest their tired Birkenstocks. The finest is All Saints, North St, with its most unusual stained-glass depiction of a spectacle-wearing churchgoer from the 15th century. The church is said to be haunted, as is Holy Trinity, Goodramgate, tucked away in a churchyard that's popular with lunch-munching shopworkers. All Saints Pavement is on a busy intersection, but step inside and there's fine stained glass and a lantern tower. St Denys, Walmgate, has York's oldest stained glass and a Norman porch.  
europe_yugoslavia_activities.html:  Activities  With plenty of mountains and a long, cold winter, Yugoslavs' thoughts frequently turn to snow. Serbia's largest centre for skiing is Kopaonik, which has 26 runs covering a total of 54km, and a 150-bed hostel. Brezovica, on the north side of the Sar Planina which separates Kosovo from Macedonia, is Kosovo's major resort. In Montenegro, try Zabljak. The ski season lasts from December to March. Yugoslavia also has some top spots for white-water rafting: try the Tara River in Durmitor National Park. Durmitor also has great skiing and hiking.  
europe_yugoslavia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Destroyed 40 times in its 2300 year history, Belgrade has never quite managed to pick up all the pieces. This slightly dishevelled air, combined with the city's vibrancy, fine restaurants, street cafes and northern European atmosphere, would make it an ideal place to spend a few days, if only accommodation weren't so horrendously expensive. Belgrade's bustling centre is the Kneza Mihaila, a cafe-lined pedestrian boulevard that runs north-west through the old town. To its south you'll find the train and bus stations.  Belgrade's fort since Celtic times, Kalemegdan Citadel looms over the old town. Most of what you'll see here was built in the 17th century, including medieval gates, Orthodox churches, Muslim tombs and Turkish baths. If seven years of news footage didn't quench your thirst for Yugoslavian war, take a look at the Military Museum on the battlements of the citadel. When you've had enough, you can pull up a bench in the Citadel's park and watch the good people of Belgrade take their evening constitutional.   Stari Grad, next to the Citadel, is the oldest part of Belgrade. Have a wander around and take a peek into the city's best museums - you'll find all of them around here. The National Museum is particularly good, with archaeological displays and paintings, or you could check out the Ethnographical Museum, which has an excellent collection of Serbian costumes and folk art. If you don't have time to get out into the countryside, the Gallery of Frescoes has full-size replicas of paintings from remote churches in Serbia and Macedonia. But the real must-see is the Palace of Princess Ljubice, an authentic, fully-furnished Balkan-style palace.  Belgrade's loveliest park is Ada Ciganlija, an island in the Sava River just upstream from the city. Swim (there's an area for skinny dipping), rent a bike, sip a cold beer from one of the cafes, or just lie on your back and think peaceful thoughts. When it's time to drag yourself off to bed the options are less pleasant. Belgrade's accommodation is expensive - there's a campground and a hostel in the south of the city, but otherwise you'll have to make do with a state-owned hotel. For food, cruise the Kneza Mihaila or, if the budget is up to it, try one of the Bohemian quarter's folkloric restaurants.  
europe_yugoslavia_environment.html:  Environment  Yugoslavia officially comprises Serbia, Montenegro, Vojvodina and the UN protectorate of Kosovo (the last three with dreams of independence), and is surrounded by (starting from the left and moving clockwise) Bosnia-Hercegovina, Croatia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Albania and the Adriatic Sea. The southern half of this 102,173 sq km country is mountainous, while the north is a river-riven plain. Once a country of seaside resorts, Yugoslavia lost most of its coastline in the 1991-96 civil war. The 150km which remains has some spectacular scenery, including southern Europe's only fjord and some very long beaches. A side-effect of the war was that many of Yugoslavia's animals fled to native Bulgaria - this refugee fauna is now making its way home.  The climate varies from Mediterranean along the Adriatic coast and in the south of the country to continental and temperate further north and inland. Maximum summer (June to August) temperatures are around 26 degrees Celsius on the plains and on the coast - though it can get much hotter than this; in the mountains 17 degrees Celsius is the average. In winter (November to February) the mountains get down to -3 degrees Celsius, while the plains are a slightly more bearable 0 degrees Celsius, although a cold wind often blows across Belgrade. Here, the rain does not stay mainly in the plain, with about three times as much falling on the mountains as on the flat spots.  
europe_yugoslavia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most visitors to Yugoslavia will need a visa; for most nationalities the visa is free. Visas are not available at the border and you must get one in advance from a Yugoslav consulate.Health risks: No particular risks, but you should consider vaccinations for hepatitis.Time: GMT/UTC plus 1 hourElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Yugoslavia is pretty quiet all year round. Its days as the beach playground of Eastern Europe are long past, and tourism hasn't really sunk its teeth back into the country. However, unless you like freezing cold, it might be an idea to avoid Yugoslavia in winter. Summer is festival season - Yugoslavia kicks up its heels in celebrations of jazz and classical music, theatre and poetry.     Events  There hasn't been much cause for celebration in Yugoslavia for the last few years, so the Yugoslavs are making up for it now with festivals aplenty. Belgrade hosts a film festival in February, an international theatre festival in mid-September, a summer jazz festival and a festival of classical music in November. Novi Sadians turn out for the Agricultural Fair in mid-May, as well as the Sterijino Pozorje Drama Festival and the Jovan Jovanovic Zmaj Children's Poetry Festival. Budva has a summer festival in (wait for it...) summer. Yugoslavia's main public holidays fall on New Year (1 and 2 January) and Orthodox Christmas (6 and 7 January).    
europe_yugoslavia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Near Montenegro's border with Bosnia, Durmitor's dramatic Tara Canyon - 100km long and 1067m deep - is reason enough to come here. Yugoslavian tourist brochures claim this is the second biggest canyon in the world after the Grand Canyon - whether it's true or not, it's certainly a top-notch cleft. The Tara River, a seething cascade of clean, green foam, races through the canyon and provides world-class thrills and spills for rafters.  Durmitor's 18 mountain lakes make this a lovely spot for hiking - you're never too far from a cool dip. Crno jezero, the largest of the lakes, lies at the base of Mount Meded, which makes a good day's climb. To the east of the park, Zabljak is one of Yugoslavia's best ski resorts.  
europe_zurich_activities.html:  Activities  Around the shores of Lake Zürich, concrete walkways give way to trees and lawns in the Arboretum on the west bank, making the area perfect for strolling. Designated areas for outdoor swimming and sunbathing are open May to September. Well-known spots are Utoquai on the east shore of the lake and Mythenquai on the west shore. There are also various free swimming spots, such as the one just north of the confluence of the Sihl and Limmat Rivers.  
europe_zurich_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Museum of Fine Arts is one of the most important of Zürich's many museums. The large permanent collection ranges from 15th-century religious art to the various schools of modern art. The work of big names such as Dali, Arp, Man Ray, Hockney, Bacon, Cezanne, Renoir, Manet, Monet and Gauguin is on display. There's a fair sprinkling of Picassos, a whole room devoted to Marc Chagall and the largest Edvard Munch collection outside Scandinavia.  
europe_zurich_facts.html:  When to Go  You can visit Switzerland any time throughout the year. Summer lasts roughly from June to September and offers the most pleasant climate for outdoor pursuits. Unfortunately, you won't be the only tourist during this period, so prices can be high and accommodation hard to find. You'll find much better deals and fewer crowds in the shoulder seasons of April to May and late-September to October. In the winter months, Zürich receives little snow and few tourists, but it's a pleasant stop-off point for relaxing or shopping after a trip to mountain resorts.     Events  The city shakes off any remains of winter with the spring festival and parade, Sechseläuten, held on the third Monday of April. During the Züri Fäscht, held once every three years at the start of July (the next one is July 2-4, 2004), a huge fairground takes over central Zürich, topped off with a lavish fireworks display. The Zürcher festspiele, mid-June to mid-July, concentrates on music and the arts, while the emphasis of the month-long Theaterspektakel is, you guessed it, theater. In early August, the beats get going with Street Parade, a large-scale electronic music event with international DJs on the decks, and the Züri Jazz Woche takes over the stage in early September. In November, Expovina, held on boats on the Bürkliplatz, offers samples of international wines, and Fasnacht brings lively musicians and a large, costumed procession.    
europe_zurich_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Lindt & Sprüngli chocolate factory is a few kilometers south of the city center at Seestrasse 204. There is a free museum (ask for the extensive English notes) and a rather self-congratulatory film is screened. These facilities are not always open, however, so phone ahead for their schedule. It is well worth a visit, not least for the very generous free gift of chocolate given at the end.  
indian_subcontinent_bangladesh_activities.html:  Activities  If you feel like taking part in a bit of neighbourhood rough and tumble, the most popular games are cricket, soccer and badminton - there are floodlit village badminton courts everywhere, and if you can play you'll have no problem meeting people (if you're a guy, that is). Keen boaters should visit the Sunderbans, where rowboats are the only way to get around the majority of this mangrove national park.  
indian_subcontinent_bangladesh_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital city of Bangladesh sits on the north bank of the bustling Buriganga River, roughly in the centre of the country. If you've arrived in Dhaka from South-East Asia, you'll probably be struck by the lack of hype and commercial activity. If you arrive from Delhi or Kathmandu, you're sure to notice the relatively clean air. If you've flown from Kolkata you might find it clean and orderly and if you've come overland through rural Bangladesh, it will seem like Babylon. Here the lights are as bright as they get in Bangladesh, and there's a range of goods and services lacking elsewhere in the country.  The oldest section of the city runs along the north bank of the waterfront and was developed when Dhaka was a significant Moghul trading centre. A must-see in the Old City is the area between the two main water transport terminals, Sadarghat and Badam Tole where the panorama of river life on the Buriganga is particularly fascinating. This area is always crowded with people and watercraft of every type. Along the waterfront is the old baroque-style palace, Ahsan Manzil which has been painted bright pink.  Dhaka's premier attraction is Lalbagh Fort, an unfinished fort dating from 1678 located in the Old City. The area also contains a couple of attractive mosques, including Hussain Dalan. The National Museum is north of the Old City in the old European zone known as Modern City. It has fascinating displays of Bangladesh's Hindu, Buddhist and Moghul past and an extensive collection of fine folk art and handicrafts.  Most of the cheaper accommodation and restaurants are in the Modern City of Central Dhaka. This area also contains the Motijheel Commercial Area, the business district where most of the banks, travel agents and airline offices are located. Dhaka is the rickshaw capital of the world, with over 300,000 colourfully painted rickshaws in operation. Taking a ride in one is as essential as catching a red double-decker bus in London.  
indian_subcontinent_bangladesh_environment.html:  Environment  Bangladesh is nestled in the crook of the Bay of Bengal, surrounded by India. It shares a border in the south-east with Myanmar and fronts onto the Bay of Bengal. The country is flat, flat, flat, and dominated by the braided strands of the Ganges-Brahmaputra-Jamuna delta. Where Bangladesh ends and the sea begins is a murky zone of shifting sediments, watercourses, flood waters and silt. Over 90% of the country is composed of alluvial plains less than 10m above sea level, making it an inviting proposition to flood-prone rivers and tidal waves. The only relief from these low-lying plains occurs in the north-east and south-east corners where modest hills rise to an average height of around 240m (787ft) and 600m (1970ft) respectively.  Roughly two-thirds of Bangladesh is fertile arable land and a little over 10% remains forested. The country is home to the Royal Bengal tiger, leopards, Asiatic elephants (mostly migratory herds from Bihar), and a few remaining black bears. There are also plenty of monkeys, langurs, gibbons (the only ape on the subcontinent), otters and mongooses. Reptiles include the sea tortoise, mud turtle, river tortoise, pythons, crocodiles and a variety of bloody unpleasant poisonous snakes. There are more than 600 species of birds: the best known is the mynah but the most spectacular are the kingfishers and fishing eagles.  The climate of Bangladesh is subtropical and tropical with temperatures ranging from an average daytime low of 21 C (70 F) in the cold season to a top of 35 C (95 F) in the hot season. Bangladesh has three main seasons: the monsoon or 'wet' season from late May to early October; the 'cold' season from mid-October to the end of February; and the 'hot' season (known in Bangladesh as the 'little rainy season') from mid-March to mid-May. There is also a 'cyclone season' - May to June and October to November.  
indian_subcontinent_bangladesh_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas:Bangladesh visas are valid for six months from the date of issue and are good for stays of one or three months.Health risks: Cholera, dysentery, hepatitis, malaria and meningococcal meningitisTime:GMT/UTC plus six hoursElectricity:220 volts, 50HzWeights & measures:MetricTourism:115,000 visitors in 1990 When to Go  The best time to visit Bangladesh is in the cold season, from October to February, when the weather is dry and fresh. Avoid April when humidity and heat gang up to make conditions intolerable.     Events  Muslim festivals follow a lunar calendar. At the beginning of the year, Ramadan is a month-long period of fasting in February/March. At the full moon 14 days before the start of Ramadan, Shab-e-Barat is a sacred night when alms and sweets are distributed to the poor. Hindu festivals follow a different calendar but they generally fall at much the same date each year. The Holi Festival or Festival of Colours, commonly known as the spring festival, is celebrated in the first week of March. Durga Puja is celebrated during October, and statues of the goddess astride a lion, with her ten hands holding ten different weapons, are placed in every Hindu temple.    
indian_subcontinent_bangladesh_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Puthia has the largest number of historically important Hindu structures in Bangladesh. The most amazing of the village''s monuments is the Govinda Temple, which was erected between 1823 and 1895 by one of the maharanis of the Puthia estate. It''s a large square structure crowned by a set of miniature ornamental towers. It''s covered by incredibly intricate designs in terracotta depicting scenes from Hindu epics, which give it the appearance of having been draped by a huge red oriental carpet.  The ornate Siva Temple is an imposing and excellent example of the five-spire Hindu style of temple architecture common in northern India. The ornate temple has three tapering tiers topped by four spires. It''s decorated with stone carvings and sculptural works which unfortunately were disfigured during the War of Liberation. The village''s 16-century Jagannath Temple is one of the finest examples of a hut-shaped temple: measuring only 5m (16ft) on each side, it features a single tapering tower which rises to a height of 10m (33ft). Its western facade is adorned with terracotta panels of geometric design.  Puthia is 23km (14mi) east of Rajshahi and 16km (10mi) west of Natore. Catch a bus from either town. Puthia is 1km (6mi) south of the highway.  
indian_subcontinent_bhutan_activities.html:  Activities  Rugged mountains, enchanting valleys, meandering rivers, crystal lakes, dense forests and the unspoilt virginity of nature make Bhutan a trekking paradise. While roughing it on spindly trails without anything resembling comfort might seem like an odd way to spend your US$200 a day, trekking is the ideal way to experience rural Bhutanese culture and unspoilt wilderness.  There is no personal equipment available in Bhutan, and nowhere to rent a sleeping bag, so bring your own. Trek operators will provide guides, pack animals, foam mattresses, eating utensils, and kitchen equipment. Trek routes range from the relatively easy three-dayers to veritable expeditions lasting over three weeks.  Though rafting in Bhutan is in its infancy, experts who have scouted the rivers say that is has the potential for some of the best rafting on earth. The fees are the same for normal tourists and trekkers, and there are several specialist companies already offering river programs on rivers ranging from class 3 to 5. The outstanding ones are Mo Chhu, upstream of Punakha in eastern Bhutan, and the Ema Datse Canyon on the Mangde Chhu in central Bhutan.  
indian_subcontinent_bhutan_attractions.html:  Attractions  Thimphu, the capital, lies in a beautiful, wooded valley, sprawling up a hillside on the bank of the Thimphu Chhu (river). It is the only world capital without traffic lights. One set was installed several years ago, but residents complained that it was impersonal and it was removed within days. Despite recent development, Thimphu retains its charm and is awash with brightly painted, elaborately decorated facades which give the town a captivating, medieval feel.  Thimphu is a cornucopia of Bhutanese culture, brimming with things to see and do. Dominating the horizon, on a hill just above the town, the imposing Trashi Chhoe Dzong (Fortress of the Glorious Religion) was completely renovated in the 1960s to become the symbol of the capital. It now houses the offices of the king and the central monk body. Most tour operators arrange a visit to the National Institute for Zorig Chusum (commonly known as 'the painting school') below the dzong. The school teaches traditional skills to talented children from throughout Bhutan, and a small shop sells some of the students' stunning works at reasonable prices.  Back in town, the most visible religious structure is the National Memorial Chorten, containing numerous sacred religious paintings and tantric statues. For many, this is the focus of their daily worship and people circumambulate the chorten throughout the day. The Weekend Market, in the centre of Thimphu, is an ideal spot to experience an urban and rural blend as villagers jostle with well-heeled Thimphu residents for the best bargains. Nearby, the Changlimithang Stadium is the national archery ground, where you can see competitors participating in the kingdom's national sport, complete with traditional garb, colourful behaviour and entertaining rituals. The National Institute of Traditional Medicine is an interesting facility that uses over 300 different plants to make medicines distributed throughout the kingdom.  You will probably be booked into one of the town's top-end hotels unless you have scheduled your trip during the Thimphu tsechu, in autumn, when all the hotels are completely booked. In that case you may end up in a guesthouse, someone's home, or even a tent - best to just accept what you get, it's part of the ride. Also, you may have to revise your idea of 'top-end': many of Bhutan's hotels are only at the standard that India's were, say, 20 years ago, but the service and facilities are generally good. However simple your accommodation, your room is likely to be ornately decorated in Bhutanese style and you may, at first, think you are being led into a monastery rather than your boudoir.  
indian_subcontinent_bhutan_environment.html:  Environment  Landlocked Bhutan is roughly the size of Switzerland. It is bounded on the north and northwest by Tibet, with India nudging its remaining borders. Virtually the entire country is mountainous, peaking at the 7554m (24,777ft) Kulha Gangri on the Tibetan border. North to south it features three geographic regions; the high Himalaya of the north, the hills and valleys of the centre, and the foothills and plains of the south. Its great rivers helped sculpt its geography and their enormous potential for hydropower has helped shape the economy.  Thanks to centuries of isolationism, its small population and topographical extremes, Bhutan's ecosystem is virtually intact, and boasts the most varied habitats and a rich array of animal and plant species. Under Bhutanese law, 60% of the kingdom will remain forested for all time. There is currently a remarkable 72% forest cover and an astonishing array of plants; more than 5500 species, including over 300 medicinal strains. There are 165 species of mammals, including many rare and endangered animals such as the golden langur, snow leopard and red panda. So far, 770 species of birds have been recorded, including the rare and endangered black-necked crane.  Just over a quarter of the kingdom is in protected areas, all of which encompass inhabited regions. A progressive integrated conservation and development program reconciles the needs of the community with environmental protection, the foundation of Bhutan's entire economic ethos. National parks sustain important ecosystems and have not been developed as tourist attractions. In many cases you won't even be aware that you are entering or leaving a protected area.  Bhutan's climate varies widely from the tropical southern border areas to the perpetually snow-covered peaks of the high Himalaya, just 150km (93mi) north as the crow flies. At the same latitude as Miami and Cairo, its climate depends largely on elevation. It bears the brunt of the monsoon, receiving more rainfall than other Himalayan regions, sometimes up to 5.5m (18ft) a year.  
indian_subcontinent_bhutan_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Despite popular mythology, you don't need special 'pull' to get a visa, neither is there a limit on the number of tourists allowed to visit. However, to minimise the perceived threat to Bhutan's unique culture, the government has established a stringent set of rules, which means you must travel on a pre-arranged itinerary and pay US$165-200, depending on the time of year, a night for the privilege, all costs included. Apart from that, the process is relatively straightforward. All visa applications must be channelled through the Department of Tourism (DOT) from a selected tour operator. With notification of approval and receipt of full payment, visas are issued when you arrive in the country. It's actually an extremely efficient system and you can set up a trip with as little as 10 days planning.Health risks: Altitude sickness, diarrhoea, hepatitis A, malaria (lowland areas only)Time: GMT/UTC plus six hoursElectricity:230V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit is October and November and during major festivals. The climate is best in autumn, from late September to late November, when skies are clear and the high mountain peaks are visible. This is the ideal time for trekking and for travelling throughout the country. You're likely to get wet no matter what the season, but avoid the monsoon, June-August, when an average of 0.5m (1.5ft) of rain buckets down in Thimphu and up to 1m (3ft) saturates the eastern hills.     Events  The largest and most colourful festivals ( tsechus) take place at Bhutan's dzongs and monasteries once a year, in honour of Guru Rinpoche. They normally take place in spring and autumn. Tsechus consist of up to five days of spectacular pageantry, masked dances and religious allegorical plays that have remained unchanged for centuries. As well as being a vital living festival and an important medium of Buddhist teaching, tsechus are huge social gatherings. The Bhutanese revel and rejoice together, dressed in their finest clothes and jewellery, in an infectiously convivial atmosphere where humour and devotion go hand in hand. For visitors, the tsechu provides an ideal opportunity to appreciate the essence of the Bhutanese character. If you can't take a good photograph here, you should hock your camera. Pack as much film as you think you will need and then double it.    
indian_subcontinent_bhutan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The pretty, lively town of Trashigang is a good jumping-off point to visit the kingdom's wild east. Few travellers make it here but, as long as you're happy to leave behind the relative comforts of Thimphu and Paro, exploring this neck of the woods can have its rewards. This is the most densely populated part of Bhutan but also most definitely the hinterland.  Locals are fond of a tipple, and bodies sleeping off their excesses at the side of the road aren't an unusual sight. On the street leading toward the dzong, you'll find the Gyeltshen Bar open every day. The sign says 'bar' and has a picture of a cowboy on one side and a local artist's peculiar adaptation of Donald Duck on the other. This is a good place to sample the local arra and soak up the atmosphere (in that order). Villagers come to town on holy days, which occur on the first, 10th and 15th of the Bhutanese month. After selling their produce they get stuck into the arra and paint the town an unforgettable Bhutanese shade of red.  Be warned! Local Jeep drivers say that if you leave Trashigang at 3.30am, you won't be reaching Thimphu before 8.30pm; a gruelling 17 hour, 600km (192mi) endurance trial up hill and down dale.  
indian_subcontinent_delhi_activities.html:  Activities  If you've got a dollar in your pocket, a Hermes scarf in your suitcase and you like mixing it with the city's elite, Delhi has sporting facilities to spare, including gyms, tennis courts and billiards tables. There's also a beautiful golf course at the Delhi Golf Club, but once again you'll need to be cashed up. Most of the major hotels have swimming pools, or if you've had your hepatitis injections you could take a dip in the public pool in the Talkatora Gardens.  Delhi isn't renowned for its water bodies, but if you're prepared to risk feeling silly you can hire a dinghy for a paddle in the pools along Rajpath, or you can take a pedal boat out on the Purana Qila moat. If that's not extreme enough for you, try the rock climbing on the artificial wall on Benito Juarez Marg, or the real thing at Lado Sarai adventure park.  
indian_subcontinent_delhi_attractions.html:  Attractions  The red sandstone walls of the massive Red Fort (Lal Qila) rise 33m (108ft) above the clamour of 'Old' Delhi as a reminder of the magnificent power and pomp of the Moghul emperors. The walls, built in 1638, may have been designed to keep out invaders, but today they mainly keep out the noise and confusion of the city, making the fort and its gardens and pavilions a peaceful haven from the surrounding chaos. The fort's main gate, the Lahore Gate, is one of the emotional and symbolic focal points of the modern Indian nation and attracts a major crowd each Independence Day.  The vaulted arcade of Chatta Chowk, an impressive covered bazaar now dedicated to selling tourist junk, leads into the huge fort compound. Inside is a veritable treasure trove of buildings, including the Drum House, the Hall of Public Audiences, the white marble Hall of Private Audiences, the Pearl Mosque, Royal Baths and Palace of Colour. An evening sound and light show recreates events in India's history connected with the fort. It's well worth seeing the show, but make sure you bring that modern self-defence system - mosquito repellent.  
indian_subcontinent_delhi_facts.html:  When to Go  One of Delhi's drawbacks is that for more than half the year the climate is lousy. For about five months - from November until the end of March - it is very good, with daytime temperatures between 21 and 30 C (70-86 F). By the end of April it's hot, while May and June are intolerable. In July it gets cooler but the humidity really hits, with all-day rain through August and September. The hugely colourful Republic Day march is held in January, while the exuberant Hindu festival of Holi takes place in February or March.     Events   Holi, in February or March, is one of the most exuberant Hindu festivals. To mark the end of winter, people chuck large quantities of coloured water and powder at one another - tourists are not excluded. In March or April, Hindus celebrate the birth of Rama by reading the Ramayana at temples throughout the city. In April or May, Sikhs have a similar celebration, Baisakhi where the holy book, the Granth Sahib is read, followed by feasting and dancing.  If you're in Delhi in July, don't miss the International Mango Festival, when Talkatora Stadium hosts hundreds of varieties of the heavenly fruit. August and September are happy festival months - during Ganesh Chaturthi, the elephant-headed god gets heaps of attention, while on Janmashtami, Krishna's birth is celebrated with plenty of mischief-making. Ram Lila, India's most popular festival, runs over 10 days in September or October. The Ramayana is reenacted and huge images of the demon Ravana are burnt. In late October, Hindu households light oil lamps to guide the god Rama home from exile, during the festival of Diwali, which is also known as the festival of sweets.  Delhi's Muslims celebrate the usual Muslim festivals. During Ramadan, the most important, Muslims fast from dawn to dusk to commemorate the revelation of the Qu'ran to Mohammed. When Ramadan ends, Muslims celebrate Id-ul-Fitr by eating a great deal and praying at the Jama Masjid.    
indian_subcontinent_delhi_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Raj Ghat, not far from the banks of the Yamuna River, has a simple black marble memorial to Mahatma Gandhi marking the spot where he was cremated following his assassination in 1948. A commemorative ceremony takes place every Friday. Two museums dedicated to Gandhi are nearby. Jawaharlal Nehru was cremated just to the north at Shanti Vana (Forest of Peace). The area is now a beautiful park with labelled trees planted by a mixed bag of notables, including Elizabeth II, Dwight Eisenhower and Ho Chi Minh. The rarely-visited but quite beautiful Zinat-ul Masjid (Most Beautiful of Mosques) towers over Raj Ghat.  
indian_subcontinent_goa_attractions.html:  Attractions  Most visitors treat Panaji as little more than a transport hub, but this lovely state capital has retained its Portuguese heritage in a lived-in, knockabout kind of way and exudes an aura more reminiscent of the Mediterranean than of India. If it weren't for the crush at the bus depot, the unmistakable buzz of auto-rickshaws and the fact that the bridge over the Mandovi River has fallen down twice in the last nine years, Panaji could seem like any siesta-ridden provincial town on the Iberian Peninsula. It contains all the quaint Mediterranean iconography - from the cramped cobbled streets, pastel-hued terraces and flower-bedecked balconies to the terracotta-tiled roofs, whitewashed churches and those small bars and cafes that are the social lifeblood of secular Portugal.  The old district of Fontainhas is the most atmospheric area to walk around, and includes the Chapel of St Sebastian which contains a striking crucifix that originally stood in the Palace of the Inquisition in Old Goa. The Church of the Immaculate Conception, consecrated in 1541, is Panaji's main place of worship, and it was here that recently arrived sailors from Portugal gave thanks for a safe passage. It's worth taking one of the river cruises along the Mandovi River, but try to persuade your captain not to loiter under the bridge spans in order to admire Indian engineering.  
indian_subcontinent_goa_facts.html:  When to Go  Goa's beachnik lifestyle is best experienced during the winter months between October and the end of February: at any other time you're likely to either fry under the uncomfortably hot sun or find your equanimity threatened by the monsoonal rains. The months of January, February and March are the best months for Hindi festivals and celebrations. January has the colourful festival of Shantadurga Prasann, February the three day zatra of Shri Mangesh, and in March is the festival of Holi, called  Shigmo.     Events  Because Goa has a large Christian community, most Christian festivals such as Easter and Christmas are celebrated along with a host of minor deity days such as the Feast of Our Lady of Immaculate Conception and the Feast of St Francis Xavier, both in December. Hindu festivals tend to occur at the beginning of the calendar year. The Festival of Shantadurga Prasann, in January, involves a night-time procession of chariots bearing the goddess followed by over 100,000 faithfuls. In the colourful and dramatic Procession of Umbrellas at Cuncolim south of Margao, the same goddess is honoured with a procession carrying a solid silver image of her to the original temple site. The three day zatra of Shri Mangesh takes place in February in the lavish temple of the same name. During the same month in the old Fontainhas district of Panaji, the Maruti zatra draws huge and colourful crowds. March sees the festival of  Holi or  Shigmo.    
indian_subcontinent_goa_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  In the recent past, Arambol, north of Chapora, was one of the back-up destinations for the free-spirited folk who found themselves banned from not wearing clothes or indulging in lack of mind control at Anjuna, when that place chose to assert a more rigid behavioural code. Ironically, it became a very popular choice because of its perceived isolation from outsiders and modern development. Today, elements of contemporary comfort have been installed here, but overall changes have been minimal and the village remains tranquil and relatively uncrowded.  The immediate coastline lacks the palm-fringed exotic cliches of the southern Goa beaches, but it has plenty of character and is pretty in its own kind of way. The main beach has adequate bodysurfing and there are several attractive bays a short walk to the north. A hot spring near the main beach feeds into a freshwater lake, producing a silt that hippies are fond of smearing on their bodies to revitalise the skin.  
indian_subcontinent_india_activities.html:  Activities  The number of trekkers visiting the Indian Himalaya is small compared to those tramping the tracks in Nepal, so if you want to peacefully experience the world's greatest mountain range, try trekking in Himachal Pradesh or Uttar Pradesh. The trekking season runs roughly between April and November, but this varies widely and some routes are only open for a couple of months each year. India's main trekking centres are Lahaul, Spiti and the Kullu and Kangra valleys in Himachal Pradesh; north of Rishikesh in northern Uttar Pradesh; Darjeeling in West Bengal; Yuksam in Sikkim; and Leh in Ladakh.  The skiseason runs from January to March, and there are resorts at Narkanda in Himachal Pradesh and Auli in Uttar Pradesh. Facilities are rudimentary but that makes it all the more fun. There's usually one lift in working order and a place to hire gear. Apres-ski consists of chapatis and a nice cup of ginger tea.  India is not renowned for its beaches, but there are popular beach centres with acceptable swimming in Goa, just across the Karnataka border in Gokarna and at Kovalam in Kerala. There are also beaches at Diu, and at Puri in Orissa. The Andaman & Nicobar Islands in the Bay of Bengal have good beaches and boast India's only diving and snorkelling opportunities.   Camel treks can be arranged in the deserts around Jaisalmer and Pushkar in Rajasthan. Treks last anywhere between a few hours and a few days. The best season is between October and February. If camel trekking leaves you feeling scorched and sore, try white-water rafting on the Indus. Trips can be organised in Leh.  
indian_subcontinent_india_attractions.html:  Attractions  Your first impression of Delhi is unlikely to be a good one, particularly if it's also your first impression of India. You'll most likely notice the pollution, the crowds, the smell, the noise and the ceaseless hassles long before you notice the city's charms. But it's worth persevering as the history of this city is fascinating, and it's all around you: the bazaars of Paharganj are a wonderful introduction to India's backpacker trail; the city's monuments are among the most architectuarally striking in the country; and the food here is great.  Delhi is the capital of India, and it's also the travel hub of northern India. It's an excellent base for visiting Agra and the Taj Mahal, and the Rajasthani colour of Jaipur is less than five hours away. If you're heading north to the Himalaya or east to the ghats of Varanasi, you'll probably pass through Delhi. So you might as well grit your teeth, hold your breath and dive on in.  
indian_subcontinent_india_environment.html:  Environment  India is a large, triangular-shaped country in southern Asia, buttressed by the long sweep of the Himalaya in the north and protruding into the Indian Ocean in the south. It's bordered by Pakistan to the north-west, China, Nepal and Bhutan to the north, and Bangladesh and Myanmar to the east. Sri Lanka is the teardrop-shaped island hanging off its southern tip. India covers a land area of some 3,287,000 sq km (1,281,930sq mi), though disputed borders with Pakistan and China make this figure somewhat arbitrary. It is the seventh largest country in the world.  Northern India contains the snow-bound peaks and deep valleys of the Himalaya and the vast Gangetic Plain, which separates the Himalayan region from the southern peninsula and stretches from the Arabian Sea to the Bay of Bengal. South of the plains, the land rises up into a triangular-shaped plateau known as the Deccan, which ranges in altitude from 300m (985ft) to 900m (2950ft). The plateau is bordered by the Eastern and Western ghats, ranges of hills which run parallel to India's eastern and western coasts and separate the fertile coastal strips from the interior.  Wildlife in India is often purported to have enjoyed a privileged and protected position thanks to the religious ideals and sentiments of Hindus, Jains and Buddhists, but much of this tradition has been lost. Extensive hunting by the British and the Indian rajahs, large-scale clearing of forests for agriculture, poaching, pesticides and the ever-increasing population have had disastrous effects on India's environment. Only around 10 per cent of the country still has forest cover, and only 4 per cent is protected within national parks and reserves. In the past few decades the government has taken serious steps to improve environmental management and has established over 350 parks, sanctuaries and reserves.  The highlights of India's fauna are its lions, tigers, leopards, panthers, elephants and rhinoceroses, but the country is also home to a rich variety of deer and antelope, wild buffaloes, massive Indian bisons, shaggy sloth bears, striped hyenas, wild pigs, jackals and Indian wild dogs. Monkeys include rhesus macaques, bonnet macaques and long-tailed common langurs. The reptilian world boasts magnificent king cobras, pythons, crocodiles, large freshwater tortoises and monitor lizards, while the diverse birdlife includes large hornbills, serpent eagles and fishing owls, as well as the elegant national bird, the peacock.  Climate varies greatly, from the arid deserts of Rajasthan to the cool highlands of Assam, allegedly the wettest place on earth. But basically India has a three-season year - the hot, the wet and the cool. The heat starts to build up on the northern plains around February and by April it becomes unbearable. The first signs of the monsoon appear in May with high humidity, short rainstorms and violent electrical storms. The monsoon rains begin around 1 June in the extreme south and sweep north to cover the whole country by early July. The monsoon doesn't really cool things off, but it's a great relief - especially to farmers. The main monsoon comes from the south-west, but the south-eastern coast is affected by the short and surprisingly wet north-eastern monsoon, which brings rain from mid-October to the end of December. The main monsoon ends around October, and India's northern cities become crisp at night in December. In the far south, where it never gets cool, the temperatures are comfortably warm rather than hot.  
indian_subcontinent_india_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Six month multiple-entry visas are now issued to most nationals regardless of whether you intend staying that long or re-entering the country. Only six-month tourist visas are extendable. Be careful to check whether your visa is valid from the date of entry or the date of issue.Health risks: Cholera, dengue fever, dysentery, hepatitis, malaria, meningitis (trekking areas only) and typhoid. Many of India's larger cities are highly polluted and travellers with respiratory ailments may wish to take precautionary measures.Time: GMT/UTC plus five hours 30 minutesElectricity: 230-240V, 50 HZWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  India has such a wide range of climatic factors that it's impossible to pin down the best time to visit weather-wise with any certainty. Broadly speaking October to March tend to be the most pleasant months over much of the country. In the far south, the monsoonal weather pattern tends to make January to September more pleasant, while Sikkim and the areas of north-eastern India tend to be more palatable between March and August, and Kashmir and the mountainous regions of Himachal Pradesh are at their most accessible between May and September. The deserts of Rajasthan and the north-western Indian Himalayan region are at their best during the monsoon.  The trekking season in the Indian Himalaya runs roughly from April to November, though this varies widely depending on the trek, altitude and region. The ski season is between January and March. The dates of particular festivals which may determine the timing of your visit are listed in the events section.     Events  India is blessed with a huge number of festivals, and several are so spectacular that you would be a fool to miss them if you were remotely within spitting distance. They start with the secular Republic Day Festival in Delhi each January, which includes elephants, a procession, and plenty of military might and Indian princely splendour. Holi in February is one of the most exuberant Hindu festivals in the north of India. It marks the end of winter and basically involves throwing coloured water and red powder over as many people as you can in one day.  The 10-day Shi'ite Muharram festival commemorates the martyrdom of Mohammed's grandson. It's marked by a grand parade and dedicated penitents scourge themselves with whips in religious fervour. It's best seen in Lucknow, the principal Indian Shi'ite city and takes place in April/May for the next couple of years. The massive Kumbh Mela festival commemorates an ancient battle between gods and demons for a pitcher ( kumbh). During the fight for possession, four drops of nectar fell from the pitcher and landed in Allahabad, Haridwar, Nasik and Ujjain. The mela is held every three years rotating through these four cities. The next festival takes place in Allahabad in 2001.  Don't mistake the great car festival Rath Yatra for a rally race. This spectacle in Puri in June/July involves the gigantic temple car of Lord Jagannath making its annual journey, pulled by thousands of eager devotees. One of the big events of the year in Kerala is the Nehru Cup Snake Boat Races on the backwaters at Alappuzha (Alleppey), which take place on the second Saturday of August.  The festival of Ganesh Chaturthi in August/September is dedicated to the popular elephant-headed god Ganesh. It's celebrated widely, but with particular enthusiasm in Maharashtra. Shrines are erected, firecrackers let off, clay idols are immersed in rivers or the sea, and everyone tries to avoid looking at the moon. September/October is the time to head for the hills to see the delightful Festival of the Gods in Kullu. This is part of the Dussehra Festival, which is at its most spectacular in Mysore and Ahmedabad.  November is the time for the huge and colourful Camel Festival at Pushkar in Rajasthan. Diwali (or Deepavali) is the happiest festival of the Hindu calendar and is celebrated over five days in November. Sweets, oil lamps and firecrackers all play a major part in this celebration in honour of a number of gods. It may be a tired old scene, but a beach party in Goa is still the only place to be for Christmas.    
indian_subcontinent_india_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Straddling a ridge at an altitude of over 2100m (6890ft) in the far north of West Bengal, Darjeeling has been a favourite hill station of the British since they established it as an R 'n' R centre for their troops in the mid-1800s. The town remains as popular as ever and offers visits to Buddhist monasteries, tours to tea plantations, shopping in bustling bazaars and trekking in high-altitude spots to the north. Like many places in the Himalaya, half the fun is in getting there. Darjeeling has the unique attraction of the famous miniature train, which loops and switchbacks its way from the plains up to Darjeeling in a 10-hour grind of soot and smoke.  Among the town's highlights is the Passenger Ropeway, the first chairlift to be constructed in India, which connects Darjeeling with Singla Bazaar on the Little Ranjit River far below. It's a superb excursion, though not an obvious choice for vertigo sufferers. Unfortunately, the ropeway is not always in use - phone in advance to see when it's running. Nearby is the Zoological Park, which houses Siberian tigers and rare red pandas in less than ideal conditions. The animals are prey to Indian tourists who show-off by teasing and spitting at them mercilessly. The precious snow leopards are kept in a separate enclosure and get a much better deal. If you're interested in learning about the complex tea-producing process, call in at the Happy Valley Tea Estate; you can also savour some of the crop at the impressive Gymkhana Club, once the playpen of the Raj and now slouching reluctantly towards the 21st century.  Flying is the easiest and most comfortable way to reach Darjeeling, although this will still only get you to within 90km (55km) of the city. The airport is situated on the flat plains near Siliguri, at Bagdogra, but there is a connecting bus from the airport to Darjeeling. Several bus lines also operate out of Darjeeling.  
indian_subcontinent_kathmandu_activities.html:  Activities  If you feel like a dip, pools in the major hotels can usually be used for a small fee, or you can check out the public pools at Balaju and at the National Stadium. Those who've left their trekking preparation until the last minute can drop by the Kathmandu Physical Fitness Centre for a workout, or maybe a post-trek sauna. Balloon flights take you above the pollution, and on a clear day it's a superb way to view the vast expanse of the Himalaya.  
indian_subcontinent_kathmandu_attractions.html:  Attractions  Very much the centre of old Kathmandu, Durbar Square is a huddle of temples and shrines, with intricately carved roofs, doors and windows. Many buildings are ancient, having survived the great earthquake of 1933; others have been completely rebuilt, not always in their original form.  A good place to begin exploring is the unprepossessing Kasthamandap, purportedly the oldest building in the valley. Although its history is uncertain, it was believed to have been built around the 12th century. At first it was a community centre, then a temple to the god Gorakhnath, and more recently, a gathering place for porters trolling for customers. Nearby is the Maju Deval, a Shiva temple with platform steps that are ideal for watching hawkers, rickshaw wallahs and souvenir sellers offering all sorts of services to credulous tourists.  Other noteworthy sights include: the Great Bell which, when rung, is believed to ward off evil spirits; the Jaganath Temple, famed for its blush-inducing array of erotic carvings; the fearsome stone image of the six-armed Kala Bhairab; and the Taleju Temple, easily the most magnificent of the square's many temples - unfortunately, it's not open to the public; even the Nepalese are denied entrance and can only visit during the annual Dasain festival.  
indian_subcontinent_kathmandu_facts.html:  When to Go  October-November, the start of the dry season, is in many ways the best time of year: the weather is balmy, the air is clean, visibility is perfect and the country is lush following the monsoon. February-April, the tail end of the dry season is the second-best period: visibility is not so good because of dust, but the weather is warm and many of Nepal's wonderful wild flowers are in bloom. In December and January, the climate and visibility are good but it can be chilly: cheaper hotels in Kathmandu - where heating is nonexistent - can be gloomy in the evening. The rest of the year is fairly unpleasant for travelling: May and early June are generally too hot and dusty for comfort, and the monsoon from mid-June to September obscures the mountains in cloud and turns trails and roads to mud.     Events  Kathmandu's festive calendar is hectic. Dasain, celebrated nationwide in October, is the most important of all Nepalese celebrations and features the biggest animal sacrifice of the year. Running a close second is Tihar (November), but unlike Daisan, animals are honoured rather than slaughtered. Other festivals celebrated nationally include the water-tinged Holi (March) and Chaitra Daisan (April), which is yet another bad day for animals. Hindu festivals include the Gai Jatra (August) and Buddhist celebrations include Buddha Jayanti (May).    
indian_subcontinent_kathmandu_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Patan, the second-largest city in the valley, lies just across the Bagmati River from Kathmandu, but it's a much quieter and less frenetic place to visit. The city is justly proud of its temples and artisans and it is their handiwork that provides the focus of the stunning Durbar Square - choc-a-block with the largest display of Newari architecture in Nepal. It includes the Royal Palace, which contains a richly decorated bathtub, and the two-tiered brick Jagannarayan Temple. Look up to the roof struts to see carvings of figures engaged in quite athletic acts of intercourse.  A few minutes' walk north of the square is the Golden Temple, a Buddhist monastery guarded by sacred tortoises that potter around the courtyard; and the Kumbeshawar, reputedly the oldest (1392) temple in Patan. South of the square is an area of charming streets lined with metalsmiths and brassware shops.  Patan's other attractions are flung further afield. Among them is a collection of four stupas, thought to have been built over 2500 years ago, and Nepal's only zoo, which features a reasonable assortment of rhinos, tigers, leopards and bird life. Palm readers gather in the park outside - they may be able to point out which animal you'll be reincarnated as. Tibetan carpets can be bought in Jawlakhel, east of the city.  
indian_subcontinent_kolkata_activities.html:  Activities  As with the rest of India, there is no shortage of activities, spiritual and physical, to satisfy the energies of travellers. Kolkata's colonial heritage also offers activities rarely found elsewhere in India. The magnificent Royal Calcutta Golf Club at the Tollygunge Club is the oldest golf club in the world outside Britain (established 1829). The club also offers horse riding and swimming; unfortunately, you can only enjoy these luxuries if you are staying at the club, are a club member or guest of a club member. Other options for indulging in a cooling dip are restricted to upmarket hotel stayers. The only hotels that allow nonguests to use their pool are the Hotel Hindustan International and ITDC Hotel Airport Ashok (the Hindustan's pool is rated more highly).  Far more accessible are the variety of meditation and yogacourses available; a basic course is a minimum of six days. For the foot soldiers, there are interesting and informative walking tours of BBD Bagh and north Kolkata (including areas off the tourist circuit). For the foodies, there is also an in-home cooking 'Food & Culture Tour' conducted by local women. Artists interested in photography, video, writing & drawing can also join an 'Impressions of Kolkata Tour'.  
indian_subcontinent_kolkata_attractions.html:  Attractions  Often referred to as the 'lungs' of Kolkata, the Maidan is a huge green expanse of India's most scarce commodity - open space. Its most imposing feature is Fort William, which was rebuilt there in 1758 after the original fort was destroyed. Costing a fortune, it wasn't completed until 20 years later, the surrounding area having been cleared of jungle, creating the Maidan that so many enjoy today. The fort is still in official use and is off-limits to visitors.  In the northeastern section is Eden Gardens, which houses the famous Calcutta Cricket Ground (Ranji Stadium) - the atmosphere during international matches held here often reach hysterical proportions. In a recent match, following a famous Indian victory, the crowd seemed set to simulataneously combust as fans began lighting newspapers and waving them overhead. Less zealous are the grazing cows, musical fountains and early-morning yoga/meditation sessions also at home in the gardens. Just west of the gardens is a pleasant spot for walking or cruising along the Hooghly River. South of the Maidan is the well-established zoo and beyond that the peaceful Horticultural Gardens.  
indian_subcontinent_kolkata_facts.html:  When to Go  At a mighty altitude of 6m (21ft) and too far south of the Himalayas to receive their cooling effect, Kolkata is remarkably temperate all year round. The best time to visit is from October to February when most fairs and festivals are celebrated and the weather on its least oppressive behaviour.     Events  In late January/early Februrary, Asia's largest book fair is held on the Maidan and is a sight to behold. Also in January is the Dover Lane Musical Conference, which gives visitors a chance to celebrate Indian classical music. If you happen to be in town around mid-April you won't fail to notice Naba Barshq, the Bengali New Year, when the locals go as crazy as the firecrackers. In October, the festival of Durga Puja sees the Hooghly River put to good use with idols of the goddess Durga taking a dip during this time of much festivity around Kolkata. In the lead-up to Christmas the National Theatre Festival hosts theatre performances from India and neighbouring countries.    
indian_subcontinent_kolkata_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The innumerable mouths of the ganges form the world's largest delta, and part of this vast mangrove swamp makes up the Sunderbans Wildlife Sanctuary, which stretches well into Bangladesh, covering 2585 sq km (1008 sq mi). Mangrove swamps may not sound overly exciting but the sanctuary is a World Heritage site and has one of the largest tiger populations of any park worldwide (estimated to number just under 300 in 2000). The notoriously shy tigers may not give you much of a look-in but sighting the big cats in their natural habitat is an exhilarating experience. The sanctuary is otherwise blissfully peaceful after the mayhem of Kolkata, with plenty for the senses to absorb, from birdlife to monkeys and even a wild pig or two.  Although barely 100km (62mi) from Kolkata, the journey to Sajnekhali can seem a world away, with India's version of planes, trains and automobiles - known as bus, boat and cycle-rickshaw - involved in getting you to the Sajnekhali visitors' centre (a six-hour journey - if you're lucky). It is easiest to organise a tour from Kolkata through the West Bengal Tourist Centre (WBTC) which includes the return journey (one or two nights), permits, food and accommodation. A small entry fee is charged at Sajnekhali visitors centre, where boats through the mangroves depart.  
indian_subcontinent_maldives_activities.html:  Activities   Scuba diving is the main attraction in the Maldives, and it's estimated that over 60% of visitors dive at least once. There are hundreds of recognised and named dive sites, many of which are accessible from resorts - the rest can be reached by boat on diving safari trips. Aside from multitudinous fish and corals, there's the thrill of diving with turtles, moray eels, manta rays, sharks and whales and exploring some of the Maldives accessible wrecks, including the Maldive Victory off Hulule Airport, believed by many enthusiasts to be one of the most exciting wreck dives in the world. Virtually every resort runs a diving school to keep its guests occupied, but you can also just don a mask and flippers and swim a couple of strokes from a beach to enjoy the delights of the Maldives' submarine world.   Surfing has become more popular in the islands since there are excellent breaks accessible from resorts close to Male. Surfing safaris to the outer atolls can also be arranged. It's always best to book surf trips with a reputable surf travel operator, because the Maldives is definitely not the sort of place where a surfer can rock up with a few boards and head for the waves. For the avid watersport enthusiast there are plenty of opportunities to go sailing, parasailing, windsurfing, waterskiing and jetskiing. Big game fishing is an upmarket option at some resorts, but there is a 'tag and release' policy, so you can't keep your catch. If you can't get your fill in the daytime, you can also go night fishing on board a dhoni (a traditional boat). Some people can just never get enough, which must be why banana riding has become a popular pastime at resorts. This involves up to a dozen people climbing onto a giant, inflatable banana which is then dragged around a lagoon by a speedboat. Coconut volleyball is only a matter of time.  
indian_subcontinent_maldives_attractions.html:  Attractions  Small, quaint, and densely settled, Male (pronounced 'Mar-lay') is not spectacular, but quite unique as a capital city. It's clean and tidy, with mosques, markets, a maze of small streets and a certain charm all its own. While it sometimes gives the impression of a sleepy country town, there is new building work everywhere, and the place feels like it will soon burst at the seams.  The island of Male is about 2km (1.2mi) long and 1km (0.62mi) wide, and packed to the edges with buildings, roads and a few well-used open spaces. Officially, the population is around 65,000, but with foreign workers and short-term visitors from other islands, there may be as many as 100,000 people in town - it certainly feels like it. The size of the island has been more than doubled through land reclamation projects and nearby islands are used for the airport and other purposes. There are plans to develop other islands to reduce the pressure on Male.  Among the city's modest attractions is the National Museum, which houses untidy exhibits of the sultans' belongings and a smattering of Thor Heyerdahl's archaeological discoveries - many of the ancient stone carvings and figurines are featured in his book The Maldive Mystery. Near the museum is the pleasant Sultan Park, and the imposing white Islamic Centre & Grand Friday Mosque which dominates the city's skyline.  There are over 20 other mosques scatttered around Male, some little more than a coral room with an iron roof. The oldest is the Hukuru Miski, famed for its intricate stone carvings. One long panel, carved in the 13th century, commemorates the introduction of Islam to the Maldives, while outside a graveyard holds the tomb of Abu Al Barakat and the tombstones of former sultans.  Other sights include the Singapore Bazaar, a conglomeration of stores selling some quality local handicrafts and an assortment of Maldivian and imported tourist knick-knackery. Also interesting are the shops selling home hardware, marine equipment, fishing gear and general merchandise for local villages. In the many small teahouses Maldivian men enjoy 'short eats' (small snack meals), smoking, chewing and talking.  Male has inexpensive food and accommodation, but nightlife is confined to teahouses and a few western style restaurants. A couple cinemas show Hindi epics and Hollywood blockbusters. Male's expatriates head to a nearby resort on their day off.  
indian_subcontinent_maldives_environment.html:  Environment  The Maldives is a chain of 26 coral atolls south-west of Sri Lanka, extending across the equator in a north-south strip 754km (468mi) long and 118km (73mi) wide. The 1192 low-lying coral islands are so small that dry land makes up less than 4% of the country's total territory. Some islands are uninhabited sandbars with a patch of scrub, while others are several km across and quite well vegetated.  Most of the time the lagoons are a brilliant blue, with amazing coral reefs and abundant marine life. Although strict local regulation of fishing and commercial exploitation has kept the marine environment in a near-pristine state, in 1998 the reefs began feeling the effects of El Nin . A rise in sea temperature, lasting two weeks, stripped the reefs of a symbiotic algae that caused 'bleaching' of the coral polyps. While bleaching can be devastating, most of the Maldive coral reefs emerged unscathed, and it appears the process has not harmed any other marine life. Marine biologists and reef-watchers believe the process to be cyclical and are watching the growth of the new coral with avid interest. In short, the reefs are still a scuba diving and snorkelling wonder world, although they have temporarily lost some of their technicolour splendour.  Though many of the bigger islands look like the picture-perfect, palm-fringed tropical fantasy, most have poor, sandy soil which supports only a limited range of plants - bamboo, pandanus, banana, mangroves, breadfruit trees, banyans, tropical vines and numerous coconut palms. The larger, wetter islands have small areas of rainforest. The main crops are limited to sweet potatoes, yams, taro, millet and watermelon, though a few more fertile islands have citrus fruits and pineapples.  Natural fauna is sparse - giant fruit bats, colourful lizards and the occasional rat. Domestic animals include cats, a few chickens, goats and some rabbits. The most exciting wildlife is under the water. Anyone with a mask and snorkel will see butterfly fish, angel fish, parrot fish, rock cod, unicorn fish, trumpet fish, bluestripe snapper, Moorish idols, oriental sweetlips and more. Larger life forms, eagerly sought by scuba divers, include sharks, stingrays, manta rays, turtles and dolphins.  Generally, the year is divided into two monsoon periods: the north-east monsoon or ruvai lasts from December to March, which are the drier months; the south-west monsoon or ulhangu lasts from April to November, and is wetter, with more storms and occasional strong winds. Daytime temperatures are about 28 C (82 F) all year. The humidity is slightly lower in the dry season but most days there's a cooling sea breeze.  
indian_subcontinent_maldives_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are required for most nationalities, but are free and can be obtained on arrival for a stay of max. 30 days.Health risks:SunburnTime:GMT/UTC plus five hoursElectricity: 220-40V, 50 HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism:300,000 visitors per year When to Go  If you're looking for a few extra hours of sunshine then you should visit the Maldives between December and April, which is the dry season. This is the high season, however, and resorts can be fully booked and prices are higher than the rest of the year. The Christmas-New Year period is the busiest and most expensive part of the high season. Between May and November it's still warm, but the skies can be cloudy, humidity is higher and rain is more likely. This is the low season, and there are fewer tourists and prices are lower. The transition months of November and April are said to be associated with increased water clarity and better visibility for divers.     Events  Most holidays are based on the Islamic lunar calendar and the dates vary from year to year. The most important religious event is Ramadan (known locally as rorda mas), the Islamic month of fasting. Other noteworthy events are Kuda Id, the sighting of the new moon (celebrated at the end of Ramadan), and the Prophet's Birthday, which commemorates the birthday of the Prophet Mohammed. Fixed holiday dates include: National Day (the day Mohammed Thakurufaan and his men overthrew the Portuguese on Male in 1573, the first day of the third month of the lunar calendar); Victory Day (victory over Sri Lankan mercenaries who tried to overthrow the Maldivian government on 3 November 1988); and Republic Day (which commemorates the current republic, founded on 11 November 1968).    
indian_subcontinent_maldives_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This solitary island in the middle of the Equatorial Channel is something of an anomaly in the Maldives. It is exceptionally fertile, producing fruits and vegetables not grown elsewhere in the country, like mangoes, oranges and pineapples. The people are said to be bigger and healthier and to live longer than other islanders.  
indian_subcontinent_mumbai_activities.html:  Activities  Mumbai is hot and sticky year-round but if you fancy a swim and are not staying at a luxury hotel, your choice is limited. Maidan cricket is a Mumbai institution, and you'll be welcome to join any informal games in progress. International cricket matches are played at Wankhede and Brabourne stadiums, just off Marine Drive. Mumbai's horse racing season runs from November to April. Races are held on Sunday at Mahalaxmi Race Course, optimistically named after the Hindu goddess of wealth. The big races are major social occasions.  
indian_subcontinent_mumbai_attractions.html:  Attractions  Every visitor to Mumbai comes to look at the exaggerated colonial marker known as the Gateway of India, a yellow basalt arch of triumph officially 'opened' in 1924. It was redundant just 24 years later when the last British regiment ceremoniously departed India from here, and it has become even more of an anachronism as passenger liner services to Mumbai have dried up. It stands on the wonderfully named Apollo Bunder, like a disused back door, and apart from its obligatory roll in the Mumbai snapshot, it's utilised by a colourful crowd of touts, balloon sellers, postcard vendors and snake charmers who give it the hubbub of a bazaar.  The majestic Taj Mahal Hotel overlooks Apollo Bunder and has great views of the gateway from its top floor Apollo Bar. This Mumbai institution was built in 1903 by JN Tata, one of the city's great Parsi benefactors, supposedly after he was refused entry to one of the city's European hotels on account of being 'a native'. The streets behind the Taj Mahal Hotel are the travellers' centre of Mumbai. The main drag of Colaba Causeway is a melee of street vendors, shops, stalls and cafes that leads south to Sassoon Dock - an area of intense and pungent activity at dawn as fishing boats arrive to unload their catch - and north to the fascinating Indo-Saracenic Prince of Wales Museum. The excellent new National Gallery of Modern Art in the nearby Cowasji Jehangir Public Hall showcases Indian modern art and is the city's most dramatic exhibition space.  
indian_subcontinent_mumbai_facts.html:  When to Go  Most travellers tend to stick around long enough only to reconfirm their plane tickets or organise transport to Goa, scared off by the city's reputation for squalor and the relatively high cost of accommodation. But Mumbai is a safe and charismatic city that fully rewards exploration. The best time to explore is between the months of September and April, when it is relatively dry and cool.  If you want to come to Mumbai for a big event, make it Ganesh Chaturthi, an 11-day Hindu festival in August/September, which reaches a climax when large images of the elephant-headed god are immersed in the sea, notably off Chowpatty Beach.     Events  The Elephanta Festival is a classical dance and music event on Elephanta Island usually held in February. Ganesh Chaturthi, an 11-day Hindu festival in August or September, reaches a climax when large images of the elephant-headed god are immersed in the sea, notably off Chowpatty Beach. Its current form as a mass procession began only in 1893, when nationalists sought to harness the appeal of a Hindu festival. Celebrated in Mumbai during October or November with particular gusto, Diwali's most significant days are marked by a barrage of firecrackers that turn Marine Drive into a war zone; traditional Diwali lamps are floated in the waters of Banganga Tank.    
indian_subcontinent_mumbai_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Mumbai's major tourist attractions are the rock-cut temples on peaceful Elephanta Island, 10km (6mi) north-east of the Gateway of India. Thought to have been carved between 450 and 750 AD, the temples survived Portuguese vandalism (one cave was reputedly used by a Portuguese battalion as a shooting gallery) and remain equal in size, beauty and power to the caves at Ajanta and Ellora. The main cave contains large sculpted panels relating to Siva, including the astonishing 6m (20ft) high triple-headed Trimurti - in which Siva embodies the roles of creator, preserver and destroyer. Boats run daily from Mumbai's Apollo Bunder every hour until early afternoon, although it's best to make the trip during the week.  
indian_subcontinent_nepal_activities.html:  Activities  Templed out? Sick of stupas? Try trekking instead. The best trekking season is between September and early December, although March and April are also popular. There are plenty of trekking companies, guides and porters to help arrange your trek, or you can easily organise things yourself because supplies and basic hotel accommodation on most trekking routes are readily available. Trekking equipment shops are plentiful in Kathmandu (try Thamel or Freak St) and Pokhara. You can rent most items that you might need.  Trekking permits are issued by the Kathmandu and Pokhara immigration offices and will need to be shown at police checkpoints along your route. A normal trekking permit costs roughly US$10 per week for the first four weeks. Permits are available on the day of application if you start the process early, and require two passport photos. National Park and Conservation Area entry fees may be applicable, depending on your route.  Popular treks from Kathmandu include the Everest Base Camp, and the Helambu and Langtang treks. From Pokhara, the most popular are the Annapurna Circuit and the Jomsom trek. Less-travelled alternatives require more planning, but include the Kanchenjunga Base Camp trek, the Dolpo region, Mustang and Rara Lake.  Remember to minimise your impact on the environment by avoiding use of non-biodegradable items, disposing of your garbage responsibly, staying at lodges that use kerosene instead of firewood, and by not using toilet paper.   Rafting and kayaking are incredibly popular, especially on the Trisuli River near Kathmandu and the Sun Kosi in Dolalghat. Remoter challenges include the Karnali (a two-day trek from Surkhet) and the Tamur (a three-day trek from Dobhan in eastern Nepal). Other activities include mountain biking in the Kathmandu Valley, Pokhara and near the Tibetan border; and safariing in the Terai. A range of language, spiritual, medicinal and yoga courses can be taken in Kathmandu and at various temples and monasteries.  
indian_subcontinent_nepal_attractions.html:  Attractions  The country's capital and largest city simultaneously reeks of history and the wear and tear of increasing modernity. The tightly packed historical centre, with its squares and temples, continues to preserve a world light years away from the shanty towns, expensive hotels, restaurants and shops on the city's outskirts. Kathmandu's core is Durbar Square, with the Vishnumati River to the west and Ratna Park to the east. The Bagmati River forms the southern boundary, while Thamel, the budget travellers' hangout, sprawls to the north.  
indian_subcontinent_nepal_environment.html:  Environment  Nepal sits uneasily on the shoulder of the southern Himalaya, wedged between China to the north and India to the south. In length and breadth it is just another small country, but in height it's a world-beater. Not only does it have the world's tallest mountains, including the cloud-hugging Everest and Annapurna, it also has the youngest - and they're still growing. Apart from its four mountain ranges - Chure Hills, Mahabharat Range, Himalaya and the Tibetan Marginals - Nepal also has vast plains in the south, fertile valleys in the midlands and high-altitude deserts in the north. The heavily cultivated belt between the Mahabharat Range and the Himalaya supports the bulk of the country's population.  There are over 6500 species of trees, shrubs and wildflowers in Nepal. The height of floral glory is in March and April, when rhododendrons, the national flower, burst into colour. Nepal also boasts an astounding diversity of animal life, with 800 bird species and exotic mammals such as the royal Bengal tiger and snow leopard, as well as rhinoceros, elephant, bear, deer, monkey and jackal. Unfortunately, due to habitat degeneration and poaching, opportunities for seeing wildlife are usually restricted to national parks, reserves and western Nepal, where the human population is sparse.  Nepal has a typically monsoonal two-season year: the dry season (October to May) and the wet season (June to September). The monsoon affects the whole country, often flooding the southern plains, before tailing off as it moves away to the north and west. Temperatures vary but are generally hottest in the summer months of May and June and coldest during December and January.  
indian_subcontinent_nepal_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All foreigners (except Indian nationals) require visas, which can be obtained in advance or on arrival. Single-entry tourist visas costing US$30 are issued for up to 60 days and can be extended for a maximum of three months (for an extra US$50). Double and multiple-entry visas are also available. Visas permit travel around the Kathmandu Valley, Pokhara and Chitwan National Park in the Terai. Trekking permits are required if you intend striking out from the main areas; they can be obtained from immigration offices in Kathmandu and Pokhara. National park and conservation fees have risen substantially: it now costs Rs2000 to enter the Annapurna Conservqation area.Health risks: Altitude sickness, hepatitis A, malaria (low-lying areas only), meningococcal Meningitis (Kathmandu Valley region) and typhoidTime:GMT/UTC plus five hours 45 minutesElectricity: 220V, 50 Hz (when available)Weights & measures: MetricTourism:255,000 visitors When to Go  Climatic factors are very important in deciding when to visit Nepal. October-November, the start of the dry season, is in many ways the best time of year: the weather is balmy, the air is clean, visibility is perfect and the country is lush following the monsoon. February-April, the tail end of the dry season, is the second-best period: visibility is not so good because of dust, but the weather is warm and many of Nepal's wonderful wild flowers are in bloom. In December and January the climate and visibility are good but it can be chilly: trekkers need to be well prepared for snow, and for cheaper hotels in Kathmandu - nonexistent heating makes for rather gloomy evenings. The rest of the year is fairly unpleasant for travelling: May and early June are generally too hot and dusty for comfort, and the monsoon from mid-June to September obscures the mountains in cloud and turns trails and roads to mud.     Events  Nepal's festive calendar is hectic. Dasain, celebrated nationwide in October, is the most important of all Nepalese celebrations and features the biggest animal sacrifice of the year. Running a close second is Tihar (November), but unlike Daisan, animals are honoured rather than slaughtered. Other festivals celebrated nationally include the water-tinged Holi (March) and Chaitra Daisan (April), which is yet another bad day for animals. Hindu festivals number the Haribodhini Ekadashi (November) and Maha Shivaratri (March), both celebrated in Pashupatinath, the Gai Jatra (August) in Kathmandu and the Krishna Jayanti (August/September) in Patan. Buddhist celebrations are just as thick on the ground, and include Mani Rimdu (November) in Solu Khumbu, Buddha Jayanti (May) in Kathmandu, and Losar (Tibetan New Year) (February) in Swayambhunath, Jawlakhel and highland communities.    
indian_subcontinent_nepal_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  At the southern end of the Kathmandu Valley, in a dark, somewhat spooky location, stands the temple of Dakshinkali. The temple is dedicated to the six-armed goddess Kali, Shiva's consort in her most sanguinary incarnation. Twice a week, Nepalese visitors journey here to satisfy her bloodlust. They bring buffaloes, chickens, ducks, goats, sheep and pigs, which are matter-of-factly despatched by having their throats slit or heads lopped off. These animals, some still writhing, are then dragged to a nearby stream where they are butchered for a feast at a later date. The blood runs freely every Saturday and especially during the October festival of Dasain when the image of Kali is literally bathed in the stuff.  Some 20km (12mi) from the city centre, Dakshinkali is just a crowded bus trip away (albeit only on the important days of sacrifice, Tuesdays and Saturdays). It's also an exhilarating mountain bike trip to the temple; 'exhilarating' in this context meaning lots of steep hills with terrific views as the ultimate pay-off.  
indian_subcontinent_pakistan_activities.html:  Activities  With some of the most magnificent mountain terrain in the world, Pakistan is naturally enough a trekkers rave. There are all types of trekking available, from those organised by overseas companies to Pakistan-based outfits. Popular trekking routes that can stretch from a day to a month are found mostly in Gilgit, Nanga Parbat, Balistan (from where treks leave to K2) and Hunza, all in the country's north. For something a little less demanding there are good one-day hikes in the Ziarat Valley, near Quetta.  Other activities include cycling along the Karakoram Highway (from Rawalpindi to the Khunjerab Pass), Potwar Plateau (Islamabad to Peshawar) and the Margalla and Murree Hills (north of Islamabad); mountain biking from Gilgit to Chitral; and white-water rafting along the Hunza, Gilgit and Indus rivers.  
indian_subcontinent_pakistan_attractions.html:  Attractions  Pakistan's commercial centre and largest city is a sprawling place of bazaars, hi-tech electronic shops, scurf-infested older buildings and modish new hotels. Its sights are spread far and wide, so a taxi or rickshaw is necessary to travel between them.  A good place to start is the Quaid-i-Azam Mausoleum, a monument to Pakistan's founder Mohammed Ali Jinnah, which can be charitably described as distinctive. More impressive is the remarkable white-marbled Defence Housing Society Mosque. The single dome, claimed to be the largest of its kind in the world, will make your gum cleave to the roof of your mouth. Above the mosque is Honeymoon Lodge, birthplace of the Aga Khan.  Other sights include the Holy Trinity Cathedral and St Andrew's Church (both good examples of Anglo-Indian architecture), the city's zoo, and the Zoroastrian Towers of Silence, hills where the dead are traditionally exposed to vultures. South of the city is Clifton, a former British hangout and now an exclusive coastal corner for the local wealthy, the popular but rather drab Clifton Beach, and Manora Island, a less-crowded beach resort   Saddar, the city centre, is the main shopping area with thriving markets selling carpets, fur coats, leather jackets, snake-skin purses, silk scarves and the country's biggest range of handicrafts. It also has a number of food stalls and cheap restaurants and the majority of budget hotels. Nightlife in Karachi is an oxymoron.  If travel outside of Karachi is possible, then the archaeological site of Moenjodaro - once a city of an Indus Valley civilisation - and the Chaukundi tombs are well worth a visit.  Being the commercial and unofficial capital of Pakistan, flights in and out of Karachi are numerous but it's worth checking the ETA of your flight. Karachi is at the epicentre of political and ethnic tensions; a tension that is cranked up to knife edge proportions when combined with rival drug gangs, political assassinations and terrorist bombings. If your flight touches down in the middle of the night, it would be wise to wait until sunrise before catching a taxi. For the same reason catching buses should be avoided for the foreseeable future. Buy a train ticket instead: trains run from Karachi to most major destinations.  
indian_subcontinent_pakistan_environment.html:  Environment  Pakistan's neighbours are an eclectic and ornery bunch: Iran to the south-west; Afghanistan to the west and north; China to the north-east; and India stretching down its eastern side. The southern coast abuts the Arabian Sea. The country is composed of towering peaks in the north (including K2, at 8611m/28,245ft the second-highest mountain in the world), dry and scrubby mountains in the west, an inhospitable plateau in the south-west, barren deserts in the south-east and alluvial plains everywhere else. These plains, constituting about a third of the country, are Pakistan's 'heart', where most of its people live and most of its food is grown. Coursing through all this tumult is the Indus River, which falls from Tibet then travels 2500km (1550mi) south before emptying through an immense delta into the Arabian Sea.  Natural vegetation in Pakistan's lowlands is patchy - mostly scattered clumps of grass and stunted woodlands. However, as the landscape rises, there are quite large coniferous forests and carpeted slopes of multicoloured flowers in the northern mountains. Fauna includes bears, snow leopards, deer and jackals. Pakistan's 800km (500mi) of coastline teems with sharks, shellfish and sea turtles, while the Indus delta is home to the marsh crocodile.  Pakistan has three seasons: cool (October through February); hot (March through June); and wet (July through September). There are, however, big regional variations. In the south, the cool season brings dry days and cool nights, while the northern mountains attract drizzle and plummeting night-time temperatures. The hot season means suffocatingly hot and humid conditions in the south but pleasant temperatures northwards. During the wet season, the tail end of the monsoon dumps steady rain mostly in the narrow belt of the Punjab from Lahore to Islamabad. Further north, the high mountains block all but the most determined clouds.  
indian_subcontinent_pakistan_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: a 30-day landing permit will be issued to most western nationals entering Pakistan without a visa, but it's probably safer to get a three-month tourist visa in your passport before you set off (with the possible option of a three-month extension).Health risks: malaria, dengue fever, hepatitis A, dysentery and, in rural areas, Japanese encephalitis.Time:GMT/UTC plus five hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: metricTourism:424,000 visitors When to Go  The best time for travelling to Pakistan depends on which part of the country you intend to visit. Generally speaking, the southern parts of Pakistan including Sind (Karachi), Baluchistan, Punjab and southern North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) are best visited in the cooler months between November and April. After that it gets uncomfortably hot. Northern areas like Punjab (Islamabad and Lahore), Peshawar, Azad Jammu Kashmir and northern NWFP are best seen during May to October before the area becomes snowbound. The weather may be a little stormy during this time, but the mountain districts are usually still accessible.  Try to avoid visiting Pakistan during Ramadan, the Muslim month of fasting, which usually occurs sometime during the months of December to early January. You may find yourself involuntarily joining in the fast because activity is kept to a minimum and food is hard to find during daylight hours.     Events  Nationwide celebrations include Ramadan, a month of sunrise-to-sunset fasting which changes dates every year (as the Islamic calendar differs from the Gregorian one); Eid-ul-Fitr, two to three days of feasting and goodwill that marks the end of Ramadan; Eid-ul-Azha, when animals are slaughtered and the meat shared between relatives and the needy; and Eid-Milad-un-Nabi, which celebrates Mohammad's birthday.    
indian_subcontinent_pakistan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Little-visited Multan, in the lower Punjab, is claimed to be the oldest surviving city on the subcontinent, dating back some 4000 years. Once an important centre of Islam, it has since attracted more mystics, holy men and saints than you can shake a shalwar qamiz at. Today, Multan is dominated by their tombs and shrines, a fort that affords superlative views over the city, and one of the best bazaars in Pakistan - those not converted by Anita Roddick might like to snap up the skin potion made from lizards that's said to be an excellent revitaliser.  It's a 570km (353mi) trek down to Multan from Islamabad. Buses and minbuses descend on Multan from a variety of destinations including Karachi, Lahore, Rawalpindi, Faisalabad and Hyderabad, dropping passengers off at the chaotic general bus station. Trains (a more comfortable way to travel) shuffle between Lahore, Karachi, and Rawalpindi.  
indian_subcontinent_sri_lanka_activities.html:  Activities  There's good swimming at any number of beaches along the south-western coast. Excellent scuba diving, snorkelling and surfing are found at Hikkaduwa, there's pleasant snorkelling at Unawatuna, and sailing, windsurfing and water skiing on the Bentota River. For trekking, try climbing Adam's Peak or walking across the strange silent plateau of Horton Plains near Nuwara Eliya to see the 700m (2296ft) drop at World's End.  
indian_subcontinent_sri_lanka_attractions.html:  Attractions  Colombo, the island's largest city, is noisy, frenetic - and just a little crazy. Thankfully, the breakdowns, snarled traffic and power cuts are received with a shrug and a smile. 'No problem' might be the national motto; it's certainly the one phrase everyone knows and can say. While the city holds less obvious interest than many other parts of the island, it's still a colourful enough place and worth a visit to see what makes Sri Lanka tick.  Colombo is a relatively easy city to find your way around. To the north is the Fort district, the country's business centre, which has department stores, book shops, airline offices and is the site of the Central Bank which the Tamil Tigers blew up in January 1996. There are also ample sights such as the clock tower, a former lighthouse, the president's residence (known by incorrigible traditionalists as Queen's House), and a cluster of colonial buildings which lend the district an aura of bygone Empire.  Immediately south of here is Galle Face Green, a seafront expanse of occasional green graced by cricket games, kite flyers and trysting lovers. Cinammon Gardens, further south, is Colombo's most fashionable neighbourhood, with elegant mansions, tree-lined streets and the city's largest park. East of the fort is the pungent Pettah bazaar district. Walk through and marvel at the riot of goods - fruit, vegetables, meat, gems, gold, silver, brass and tin junk.  Culture buffs shouldn't miss the National Museum, which has a good collection of historical works, the Art Gallery, which focuses on portraiture and temporary exhibits by local artists, and the city's many mosques and Buddhist and Hindu temples. After familiarising yourself with Sri Lankan culture, check out the island's fauna at the Dehiwala Zoo. The highlight here is an afternoon elephant show. The closest real beach is at Mt Lavinia, a faded resort 10km south of the city.  Budget accommodation, cheap food and the best shopping can be found in the Fort and Pettah districts. Nightlife is moribund, though a visit to the cinema in the Fort district is an experience.  
indian_subcontinent_sri_lanka_environment.html:  Environment  Sri Lanka is shaped like a giant teardrop falling from the southern tip of the vast Indian subcontinent. It is separated from India by the 50km (31mi) wide Palk Strait, although there is a series of stepping-stone coral islets known as Adam's Bridge which almost form a land bridge between the two countries. The island is just 350km (217mi) long and only 180km (112mi) wide at its widest, and is about the same size as Ireland, West Virginia or Tasmania.  The southern half of the island is dominated by beautiful and rugged hill country. The entire northern half comprises a large plain extending from the edge of the hill country to the Jaffna peninsula. The highest mountain is the 2524m (1565mi) Mt Pidurutalagala near Nuwara Eliya, and the longest river is the Mahaweli which courses from the centre and empties into the Indian Ocean at Trincomalee. The best beaches are on the south-western, southern and south-eastern coasts.  Ebony, teak, silkwood and spectacular orchids are found in the dense south-western tropical rainforests. Hardy grasslands, rhododendrons and stunted forests predominate in the cool, damp highlands, and shrubs and grasslands survive in arid zones in the north. Animal life is profuse and includes the ubiquitous elephant, as well as leopards, deer, monkeys, sloth bears, wild boar, cobras, crocodiles, dugong and turtles. The island is an important seasonal home to migrating birds, including flamingoes, who flock to the lagoons, wetlands and bird sanctuaries for respite from the northern winter. The best time to see birds is between January and April.  Sri Lanka is a typically tropical country with distinct dry and wet seasons, but the picture is somewhat complicated by the fact that it is subject to two monsoons: the Yala season (May to August), when the south-west monsoon brings rain to the southern, western and central regions; and the Maha season (October to January), when the north-east monsoon brings rain to the north and east of the island. Temperatures in the low-lying coastal regions are high year round but they rapidly fall with altitude and in the hill country, where it feels like perpetual spring. The highest temperatures are from March through June, while November to January is usually the coolest time of the year. Rainfall is heaviest in the south, south west and central highlands; the northern and north-central regions are very dry. The best time to visit the west, south coast and hill country is between December and March. May to September is best on the east coast.  
indian_subcontinent_sri_lanka_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visitors from the USA, most western European countries, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Israel, Japan, Singapore and Hong Kong do not require visas. Automatic entry for between 30 and 90 days is given on arrival.Health risks: Cholera, hepatitis & malariaTime:GMT/UTC plus six hoursElectricity: 230-40V, 50 HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism:400,000 visitors in 1994 When to Go  Climatically the driest and best seasons are from December to March on the west and south coasts and in the hill country, and from May to September on the east coast. December to March is also the time when most foreign tourists come, the majority of them escaping the European winter.  Out of season travel has its advantages - not only do the crowds go away but many airfares and accommodation prices go right down. Nor does it rain all the time. Reefs may protect a beach area and make swimming quite feasible at places like Hikkaduwa, which during the monsoon can be quite pleasant.     Events  Sri Lanka has an enormous range of Buddhist, Hindu, Christian and Muslim festivals. The Kandy Esala Perahera (July/August) is the country's most important and spectacular pageant, with 10 days of torch-bearers, whip-crackers, dancers, drummers and elephants lit up like giant birthday cakes. It climaxes in great procession honouring the Sacred Tooth Relic of Kandy. Second in importance is the Duruthu Perahera (January), held in Colombo, which celebrates a visit by Buddha to Sri Lanka.  Other celebrations include National Day (February), which is celebrated with parades, dances and national games; New Year (March/April), celebrated with elephant races, coconut games and pillow fights; Vesak (May), a sacred full moon festival commemorating the birth, death and enlightenment of Buddha; the Hindu Vel festival (July/August) in Colombo, where the ceremonial chariot of Skanda, the God of War, is hauled between two temples; and the predominantly Hindu Kataragama festival (July/August) in Kataragama, where devotees put themselves through the whole gamut of ritual masochism.    
indian_subcontinent_sri_lanka_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  From December to April, pilgrims converge to climb the 2224m (7295ft) Adam's Peak. At the top is a huge 'footprint', claimed by Muslims to belong to Adam, who stood there in expiation of his sin in the Garden of Eden. Never mind that Buddhists believe it to be the mark of Buddha or that Hindus hold the print to have been made by Lord Shiva, the fact remains that it is has been a place of pilgrimage for over 1000 years. The view from the peak at dawn is enough to shock the most cynical agnostic into a state of reverie. It takes about four hours to climb to the top from the town of Dalhousie.  Reaching the base of Adam's Peak is simple and if you're making a night ascent, you've got all day to arrive. Buses run to Dalhousie from Kandy, Nuwara Eliya, and Colombo in the pilgrimage season. Otherwise you need to get first to Hatton or Maskeliya. If you're really running late, taxis will take you to Hatton or Dalhousie. You'll need to cover 220km (136mi) to get there from Colombo.  
middle_east_abu_dhabi_activities.html:  Activities  There's not a whole lot to do in Abu Dhabi. You can window shop along Al-Nasr St for carpets and Arabian souvenirs, though most of these are actually made elsewhere. Locally made crafts are available at the Women's Craft Centre off Airport Rd, south of the centre. There are a couple of good bars and cafes, including one late-nighter which overlooks the water and the city. The Abu Dhabi Golf Club is a few kilometres from the centre of town next to the racecourse. To play the grass course will cost you dearly.  
middle_east_abu_dhabi_attractions.html:  Attractions  This large, faceless building on Zayed the First St is more interesting inside than its outward appearance would indicate. It houses the National Archives, the National Library and the Institutions of Culture and Art. There are often interesting exhibits on local history and Islamic art, as well as modern art exhibits and musical concerts.  
middle_east_abu_dhabi_facts.html:  When to Go  Visiting in high summer (July and August) is simply a bad idea - however, if you enjoy temperatures of 48 C (118 F) you will be treated to heavily discounted hotel rates. Many hotels also offer up to 50% off their normal rates during Ramadan.  From May to September, daytime temperatures are in the low to mid-40 C (104-113 F) range. In the winter months, temperatures average in the low to mid-20 C (68-77 F) range. It can get very windy during these months.     Events  These specific event dates apply to the years 2001 and 2002. The main Islamic holidays are Ramadan (November), Eid al-Fitr, which marks the end of Ramadan, Eid al-Adha (February), which marks the pilgrimage to Mecca, and the Prophet's Birthday (May or June).  The UAE also observes New Year's Day, Lailat al-Mi'raj (Ascension of the Prophet) and National Day in (2 December). In Abu Dhabi, August 6th is a holiday marking the accession of Sheikh Zayed.  The UAE Desert Challenge road rally is a dusty, rollicking affair that takes place in November. The race starts and finishes in Dubai, but revs through Abu Dhabi territory as well. More in the spirit of most visitors is a shopping festival in early March.    
middle_east_abu_dhabi_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If you're looking for a break from the world of banks and boutiques that is modern Abu Dhabi, take a walk through what remains of the old souq, in the small area east of Al-Ittihad Square and north of Shaikh Khalifa bin Zayed St. Unsurprisingly in glossy Abu Dhabi, this area is slated for redevelopment.  
middle_east_afghanistan_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital of Afghanistan was never a terribly attractive or interesting city, something that has certainly not improved during the last 20 years of conflict. The Soviets left the city reasonably intact in 1989, but since then Kabul has been virtually destroyed by bombardments and street battles, with an estimated loss of some 30,000 lives.  The Kabul Museum, which used to have one of the finest collections of antiquities in Asia, has had nearly three-quarters of its finest collections looted. It's still possible to see the remaining artifacts - those without any significant monetary value - but museum hours are erratic.  It was also once possible to walk the five-hour length of the crumbling walls around the ancient citadel, Bala Hissar, but they are now off limits and extremely dangerous due to unexploded bombs and landmines. The pleasant Gardens of Babur, at the time of writing also off limits, were once a cool retreat near the city walls.  
middle_east_afghanistan_environment.html:  Environment  Afghanistan's dramatic landscape encompasses a variety of biomes, from arid steppes to alpine fields. The seismically active mountains of the Hindu Kush, where most of the country's water falls as snow, are home to many plants and animals that exist nowhere else on Earth. The steppes and intermediary ecosystems are also of interest to the amateur biologist.  But, as with many places in the former USSR, land and water mismanagement led to the destruction of many of these unique natural habitats. While unruly Afghanistan was spared the worst of this trend - not even the Soviets wanted to risk a nuclear jihad - the constant, high-tech bloodshed of the last 20 years has left no environment undisturbed.  Unexploded artillery, landmines of every vicious sort and other implements of destruction are hidden in hill and vale; no one in their right mind would hike here without pushing a very large, very light metal detector in front of them.  Though Afghanistan's tough wildlife would likely recover given just a moment of peace, that moment doesn't seem like it's coming soon. Consider postponing your studies of Central Asian daisies for a few more years.  
middle_east_afghanistan_facts.html:  Events  Even if you're brave (read: suicidal) enough to visit Afghanistan these days, you should still avoid large gatherings, particularly those marking national and Muslim holidays. But, should curiosity get the best of you, cover yourself according to the strictest local custom and check out these celebrations.  One of the most important holidays in Afghanistan is Navrus (New Days), celebrated around March 21, on the spring equinox. It's an Islamic adaptation of far more ancient festivities, and special foods - wheat for the ladies and veal for the men - are prepared. Wine is traditionally part of the service, but that custom has been put on hold by the puritanical Taliban. Navrus is a family affair these days, though some communities still take it into the streets.   Liberation Day takes place on April 18, and probably isn't the party to flaunt any connections you might have with the West. It's followed by Revolution Day, April 27, making the whole month a great time for flag waving. May 1 means Labor Day, here as in all the former Soviet republics. Independence Day is celebrated August 18 with at least some fanfare.  The four major Islamic holidays are celebrated according to the lunar calendar, so check the dates and plan ahead. Eid-ul-Azha, the Feast of Sacrifice, marks the beginning of the hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. Those who can afford it buy and slaughter an animal, then share the meat with friends and strangers. Mawlid-an-Nabi, the Prophet Mohammed's birthday, is much more low-key.   Ramadan is the month of fasting. From sunrise to sunset devout Muslims who can physically handle it are asked to go without food, drink, cigarettes and just about everything else. It's illegal - not to mention very, very rude - to do any of these things in front of people observing this important holiday. Eid-ul-Fitr marks the end of Ramadan, when friends and families gather to eat, eat and, if so inclined, smoke cigarettes.    
middle_east_bahrain_activities.html:  Activities  Most activities on the main island involve clubs, societies and sports organisations. Swimming isn't much of an option at the beaches, as the water is so shallow that you can wade out as far as half a kilometre and still only be up to your knees. You're better off at clubs or hotel pools (especially if you're a woman). Otherwise, social life on the island consists mainly of eating and drinking out.  
middle_east_bahrain_attractions.html:  Attractions  Manama is the very new capital of a very old place. Many of the newer hotels and official buildings along the northern edge of the city sit on reclaimed land, while there are neighbourhoods a few blocks inland that have changed little in the last 50 years. Manama is located at the north-eastern tip of Bahrain Island.  The city's major attraction is the National Museum, a modern building with excellent exhibits well-marked in both Arabic and English. The museum covers 7000 years of Bahrain's history, including its many grave mounds and temples; its Dilmun, Tylos and Islamic periods; and Arabic writing and calligraphy. Next to the museum's parking lot is a number of reconstructed traditional buildings and boats. Even if you're not an aficionado of Islamic calligraphy, plan on hitting Beit Al-Qur'an, a museum and research center downtown. Calligraphy is central to Muslim culture and is closely connected to religious life. The centrepiece of the museum is its large collection of Korans, some dating from the 7th century. You'll need a magnifying glass to read the Koranic verses written on a grain of rice.  Just south of Government Ave is the souk, or marketplace. Electronic gear, gold and women's clothing seem to be the main stock in trade at the souk, but in the great tradition of Middle Eastern bazaars almost anything can be found if you look long and hard enough. The backstreets of the souk are great places to wander even if you're not in the market to buy.  The Al-Fatih Mosque offers non-Muslim visitors a rare opportunity to enter a mosque. You can't miss it: large enough to hold 7000 worshippers, it's the largest building in the country.  Central Manama is about 10km (6mi) west of Bahrain International Airport and is accessible by bus.  
middle_east_bahrain_environment.html:  Environment  The only island-state in the Arab world, Bahrain is an archipelago of 33 islands with a combined area about the size of Singapore. The main island lies in the Persian Gulf about halfway between Saudi Arabia to the west and Qatar to the east. Iran is about 200km (125mi) north-east across the Gulf.  Bahrain Island is the largest of the archipelago, around 50km (30mi) north to south and 16km (10mi) east to west. The main island is pretty flat, with Jabal Ad-Dukhan, the highest point, only 130m (426ft) above sea level. Most development is concentrated on the northern third of the island.  Bahrain has long been famous for its greenery in the midst of the region's deserts. Recently, however, this has been changing. Though parts of the island are still thickly covered in date palms, the island is a lot less lush than it used to be. Some of the trees have been cut down, while others have died as increasing demands are made on the underground springs that water them. Aside from domesticated donkeys, you won't see many animals outside the Al-'Areen Wildlife Sanctuary. Even that old Arabian standby, the camel, is a relatively rare sight in Bahrain.  It can get extremely hot and humid in Bahrain from June to September, with high temperatures averaging 36 C (97 F) during the day. November to March tends to be much more pleasant, with warm days and cool nights.  
middle_east_bahrain_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors save those from Britain need visas. If your passport has an Israeli stamp you will be denied entry.Health risks: NoneTime:GMT/UTC plus 3 hoursElectricity: 230V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit Bahrain is between November and February, when it's not too hot. Avoid visiting during Ramadan, the Muslim month of daytime fasting, when things slow down considerably. (Ramadan ends in January or December through 2002.) You might also want to stay away during the Muslim festivals marking the end of Ramadan and the annual pilgrimage to Mecca (ending in March for the next few years), or over New Year's Eve. At these times the country is swamped with merrymakers from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait and accommodation becomes very hard to find, especially at the lower end of the scale, where prices sometimes double.     Events  The Islamic holidays of Eid Al-Fitr (the end of Ramadan), Eid Al-Adha (the end of the pilgrimage season) and the Islamic New Year are all major holidays in Bahrain. Ramadan, which is scheduled according to the lunar calendar, occurs around the Gregorian December and January through 2002; the pilgrimage season ends in March for the next few years. Bahrain's large Shiite community also celebrates the religious festival of Ashoora, which marks the death of Hussein, the grandson of the Prophet, at the battle of Karbala in 680 AD. Processions, led by men flagellating themselves, take place in April and March for the next several years.    
middle_east_bahrain_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Muharraq has been spared much of the modernising that's transformed Manama in recent years. Its souk is funkier and even more interesting than the one in the capital. There are a couple of well-preserved traditional houses, the Bait Shaikh Isa Bin and the Bait Seyadi, both dating from the early 19th century. Bait Shaikh Isa Bin features beautiful plaster work and carved doors and has a working wind tower - an ingenious structure designed to direct the slightest breeze into the interior.  Put on your best smile and visit the 16th century Abu Mahir Fort, where if you ask nicely your escort might let you climb the watchtower and take in the excellent view of the Manama skyline. Its sister fort, the Qal'at Arad, also dates from the Portuguese era and has been beautifully restored in places. The small dhow building yard is a good spot to see Bahrainis at work on their traditional fishing boats. Buses run regularly between Muharraq and Manama. Muharraq is a few kilometres east of Manama and is accessible by bus.  
middle_east_dubai_activities.html:  Activities  Although many beaches are the private domains of various five-star hotels, for a (stiff) fee, you can spend the day lounging on the sand and swimming in the Gulf's clear water with the beautiful people. There are also public beaches, but single women may find the male attention a bit much. Plenty of water sports, including Jet-Skiing, water-skiing, scuba diving, snorkeling and deep-sea fishing are offered by dozens of operators.  It costs a fortune to maintain the greens, but golfing is a huge draw and Dubai has most of the Arabian Peninsula's courses. If it's too hot to don the requisite collared shirt and slacks, consider a visit to the slides at Wild Wadi Waterpark or one of the city's two indoor ice skating rinks. Dozens of health clubs make working out a breeze.  If a trip inland is more your speed, a desert safari, complete with camels, a barbecue dinner and even a belly dancer for entertainment may be just the thing. Sand-skiing involves a single deck and an arduous climb up the tallest dune you can find. Go-karting and 4WD desert driving are the fastest ways to find fun in the sun.  The Dubai Explorer or What's On have more comprehensive listings of the the city's activities and organisations.  
middle_east_dubai_attractions.html:  Attractions  Souqs, Arabic open-air markets, are a classic Dubai experience. They've changed a lot since the Bedouin days, but are still open for business in the early morning and between 5pm and 8pm.  The Deira Covered Souq has more of an Indian feel than an Arabic one, with folks hawking textiles, spices, kitchen wares, clothes and henna. The Spice Souq, also known as the Deira Old Souq (it's not just for spices), sells all sorts of trinkets, clothing, rugs and glassware. The overflowing bags of seasonings are concentrated at the eastern end, closest to Dubai Creek; just follow your nose.  Deira's celebrated Gold Souq, with its intricate wooden lattice archway and windows filled with glittering gold, attracts buyers from throughout the world. Dubai's nickname, the 'City of Gold,' was well earned: any type of gold jewellery, in any color the craftspeople can coax from the metal, can be yours for a price. Next door is the Perfume Souq, with European designer fragrances, cleverly named knock-offs and strong, spicy Arabic scents.  The Electronics Souq is known throughout the region as the place to get the PlayStation of your dreams, and does a roaring business with those who ship the stuff back home and sell it for a tidy profit. The Dubai Souq, in Bur Dubai, has been beautifully rebuilt to appeal to tourists, but sells mostly items appreciated by the Indo-Pakistani expat community. This is the place to purchase that custom-made sari.  
middle_east_dubai_facts.html:  When to Go  The best time of the year to visit Dubai is between November and April, when the weather is coolest. The rest of the year you're more likely to be running from one air-conditioned environment to the next instead of getting out and exploring. Ramadan, which takes place at a different time each year on the Western calendar, is the Muslim month of fasting and is strictly adhered to throughout the UAE. That means that it's illegal, not to mention rude, to eat, drink or smoke in public from sunrise to sunset at this time. On the up side, hotel rates drop up to 70%.     Events  Religious holidays are tied to the lunar Islamic Hejira calendar, so dates vary from year to year on the Western Gregorian version, which runs on solar time. Eid al-Fitr (the end of Ramadan), Eid al-Adha (a celebration that follows Pilgrimage), Lailat al-Mi'raj (the Ascension of the Prophet), the Prophet's Birthday and the Islamic New Year are the main celebrations. Secular holidays include New Year's Day (1 January) and National Day (2 December). Keep in mind that Thursday and Friday make up the Dubai weekend.  Ramadan is the month during which Muslims fast from dawn to dusk, and it is in poor form to eat, drink or smoke in public. If a Muslim friend offers you tea or coffee during the daytime in Ramadan, Ms Manners would suggest that you politely refuse. Bars and pubs are closed until 7pm each night, and some restaurants do not serve alcohol. At sundown, the feast begins.  Dubai hosts two major tourist-oriented events during the year. The fiercely promoted Dubai Shopping Festival (DSF) runs for the whole month of March. Shopping centres bust themselves to bring in the spenders. Entertainment for the kids, fireworks and free raffle tickets with every purchase are just part of the fun. The lower-key Dubai Summer Surprises is designed, along with cheap hotel rates, to attract tourists during the summer slump. Surprises include displays of traditional culture, cooking demonstrations, art shows and more raffle tickets.    
middle_east_dubai_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The largest and perhaps most significant archaeological site in the UAE, Jumeira dates to the 6th century AD. The settlement is particularly interesting because it straddles the pre-Islamic and Islamic eras. Today surrounded by shopping centers plying the spoils of modern-day Dubai's trade, this settlement was once a caravan station along a trade route linking Iraq to northern Oman.  Excavations have unearthed a series of stone walls that surrounded a seven-shop souq and a storage facility. Several homes, what is believed to be a governor's palace and several other structures that keep the archaeologists guessing can be viewed from behind a fence. If someone is working, you may be able to wrangle your way in. Relics, including glazed pottery, copper and iron items, glassware and coins, are on display at the museum for the Heritage and Diving Villages.  
middle_east_iran_activities.html:  Activities   Trekking is possible in the Alborz Mountains, north of Tehran; from Karaj, it's possible to trek to the Caspian Sea. You can do Mountaineering and rock climbing here too. Skiing is becoming popular among wealthier Iranians, and foreigners who appreciate that this is one of the least expensive skiing destinations in the world. Shemshak, only a couple of hours from Tehran, is a good base for downhill skiing; cross-country skiing is possible around Kalardasht in Mazandaran province.  Beach activities are very low-key: swimming and sunbathing is segregated and not much fun for women because they must still keep to the full hejab at all times, although there are female-only swimming pools where the strict dress code doesn't apply. The coast along the Caspian has a few expensive hotels with private beaches but it sure ain't the Costa del Sol.  The best place to go fishing is the Caspian Sea, where salmon, bream, mullet and sturgeon are found in large quantities. Water-skiing is theoretically possible in many of the rivers and lakes, but is most common in the Karaj Dam. You can go hang-gliding off the cliffs near the village of Larijan, about halfway between Tehran and Amol.  
middle_east_iran_attractions.html:  Attractions  Iran is not blessed with one of the world's loveliest capitals. Pollution, traffic snarls, chronic overcrowding and a lack of responsible planning have all helped to make Tehran a metropolis that even the most effusive travel agent would have difficulty praising. If you're expecting an exotic crossroads steeped in oriental splendour, you'll be sadly disappointed. The main sights are spread out, but the hotels are good, the variety of restaurants is impressive, the facilities are far ahead of those anywhere in the provinces, and the Tehranis are friendly. The major attraction for visitors is the city's excellent museums.  Human settlement of the region dates from Neolithic times, but the development of Tehran was very slow and its rise to prominence largely accidental. From the mid-16th century, Tehran's attractive natural setting and good hunting brought it into the favour of the Safavid kings. It developed from a moderately prosperous trading village into an elegant, if dusty, city, and European visitors wrote of its many enchanting vineyards and gardens. In 1789, Agha Muhammed Khan declared Tehran his capital, and six years later had himself crowned as Shah of all Persia. The town continued to grow slowly under later Ghajar rulers.  From the early 1920s, the city was extensively modernised on a grid system, and this period marked the start of phenomenal population growth and uncontrolled urban development that continues to this day. Today Tehran is so vast that getting hopelessly lost at least once is a near certainty, no matter what form of transport you take. If you need landmarks, the Alborz mountains, known as the 'North Star' of Tehran, are to the north; and the huge telephone office at Emam Khomeini Square dominates inner southern Tehran.  The National Museum of Iran houses a marvellous collection including ceramics, stone figures and carvings dating from around the 5th millenium BC. Many of the relics are taken from excavations at Persepolis, Shush, Rey and Turang Tappe and will probably mean more to you if you come here after you've visited the archaeological sites. The Glass & Ceramics Museum is one of the most impressive in Tehran, not only for its professionally organised exhibits, but also for the building itself. The Reza Abbasi Museum, another stunner, contains examples of Islamic painting, pottery and jewellery. The Sa'd Abad Museum Complex includes the last Shah's White Palace; the grounds are a superb place to have tea. The Jewels Museum houses incredible jewellery over which wars were waged.  Tehran's best non-museum sight is the haphazard bazaar, so big it's practically a separate city. Also worth a look are the busy Emam Khomeini Mosque, the drab Armenian Sarkis Cathedral, and the city's parks and gardens.  Just about every cheap place to stay in Tehran is in the southern part of the city, within about a 1km radius of Emam Khomeini Square. This is also the place to look for a good kebab. Four and five-star hotels are scattered through the city, most of them hopelessly inconvenient if you're hoping to use public transport. The airport is about 10km (6mi) south-west of central Tehran.  
middle_east_iran_environment.html:  Environment  The Islamic Republic of Iran is bordered to the north by the states of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan (all formerly of the USSR) and the Caspian Sea; to the east by Afghanistan and Pakistan; to the south by the Gulf of Oman and the Persian Gulf; and to the west by Iraq and Turkey. Iran is about one-fifth the size of the USA and nearly as big as Queensland, Australia. The country is dominated by three mountain ranges: the fertile, volcanic Sabalan and Talesh ranges in the north-west; the very long, Jurassic-era Zagros range, down the western border; and the dominant Alborz range, home of Iran's highest mountain, the permanently snowcapped Damavand (5670m/18,600ft), to the north of Tehran. The two great Iranian deserts, the Dasht-e Kavir (more than 200,000 sq km/78,000 sq mi) and the Dasht-e Lut (more than 166,000 sq km/64,740 sq mi), occupy most of the north-east and east of the central plain.  Massive, unrestrained urban and industrial development and the Iran-Iraq War have caused irreparable environmental damage, particularly on the southern slopes of the Alborz range, along the Caspian Sea and around the Persian Gulf. To its credit, the Iranian government has created a few national parks, but the warm glow dissipates once you realise the parks have no fenced areas or rangers. The northern slopes of the Alborz are densely covered with deciduous trees, forming the largest area of vegetation in Iran. There are some lovely pockets of forest around Khalkhal, south of Ardabil, and at Nahar Khoran, just south of Gorgan. Mammals such as the wolf, jackal, wild boar, hyena, black bear and lynx are common in the unexplored depths of the forests of Mazandaran province. In the deserts and mountains you're more likely to come across the more sedate Persian squirrel and mongoose, galloping Persian gazelle, porcupine, badger and endemic Iranian wild ass. Two of the more fascinating creatures are the huge Alborz red sheep, with its black beard and spiralling horns, and the Oreal ram, with a white beard and enormous horns.  Because of its size, variety of topography and altitude, Iran experiences great extremes of climate. Winters (December to February) can be unpleasantly cold in most parts of the country, while in summer (June to August) temperatures as high as 40 C (104 F) are nothing out of the ordinary. Regular rainfall is more or less restricted to the far north and west - generally also the coldest parts of Iran.  
middle_east_iran_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Everyone needs a visa to visit Iran. Unless you're from Slovenia, Macedonia, Turkey or Japan, this is going to be a hassle. The regulations are baffling, the costs often high. The best advice is to apply for a visa before you leave home. However, once you're in you're in - getting an extension inside Iran is often easier than getting any sort of visa outside the country.Health risks: Diarrhea, malaria, cholera, schistosomiasis, altitude sickness, sunburnTime: GMT/UTC plus 3.5 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Generally the best times to visit Iran are mid-April to early June, and late September to early November - these times avoid the long, cold northern winter, the Iranian New Year (late March) and the summer, which can be unpleasantly hot in much of the country. Many people prefer not to visit Iran during Ramadan, the Muslim month of fasting, but apart from most restaurants closing between dawn and dusk, Ramadan is not that bad for travelling.     Events  Just about everything that can close will close on a religious holiday, so it's important to know when they fall. Iran's religious holidays follow the Muslim lunar calendar, so the dates according to the western calendar vary each year. Major events include Ramazan, the month of dawn to dusk fasting; Eid-e Fetr, the one day festival of feasting that marks the end of Ramadan; Ghadir-e Khom, which commemorates the day that the Prophet Mohammed appointed Emam Ali his successor; and the birthday of Mohammed.  National holidays follow the Persian solar calendar, but still usually fall on the same day each year according to the western calendar. The big bangers include the lustily titled Magnificent Victory of the Islamic Revolution of Iran on 11 February, which is the anniversary of Khomeini's coming to power in 1979; the enthusiastically celebrated No Ruz or Iranian New Year (21 to 24 March); and the tear-jerking Heart-Rending Departure of the Great Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran on 4 June, which commemorates the death of Khomeini in 1989.    
middle_east_iran_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Gombad-e Kavus is a spectacular tomb tower, a stunning memorial to the remarkable Ghabus (of which 'Kavus' is a corruption), a prince, poet, scholar, general and patron of the arts. He ruled the surrounding region at the turn of the 11th century and decided to build a monument to last forever. The 55m (180ft) tower was completed in 1006, six years before Ghabus was slain by an assassin.  Gombad is 93km (58mi) north-east from Gorgan, a sizeable town in northern Iran near the Caspian Sea. Minibuses leave about every hour from the special Gombad terminal. There's also a daily bus from Tehran, 470km (290mi) south-east of Gombad.  
middle_east_israel_and_the_palestinian_territories_activities.html:  Activities  Israel's changing landscapes make this a great country for hiking, whatever your fitness level. Good spots to try include the Maktesh Ramon crater in the Negev, Wadi Qelt in the West Bank and various trails in the Golan. It's worth visiting the SPNI (Society for Protection of Nature in Israel), for more information on hiking. If you'd rather sit on a horse than use your own feet, there are lots of riding centres in the Galilee, Golan and Tel Aviv areas. For swimming try Tel Aviv's beaches and Eilat (if you can bear the resort atmosphere), which is also good for windsurfing, sailing, waterskiing and diving. For an extraordinary diving experience, visit Caesarea, where you can dive the ruins of Herod's city.  
middle_east_israel_and_the_palestinian_territories_attractions.html:  Attractions  They don't come any holier than this. Jews, Muslims, Christians: all three hold Jerusalem sacred, and it seems all three would rather see it destroyed than have the others touch it. Of course, most people come to Jerusalem to immerse themselves in this holy history, but try to remember that Jerusalem is as much a modern city as a concept, as full of living, breathing people as ghosts and Biblical figures. The city is divided into three parts: the walled Old City, where most of the sights are; the predominantly Arab East Jerusalem; and the rapidly expanding new city, known as West Jerusalem. The Old City is also divided, into Armenian, Christian, Jewish and Muslim quarters.  To get an idea of the Old City, it's worth strolling around the city walls, built in the 16th century by Suleyman the Magnificent. Rising over the city is the Haram-ash Sharif/Temple Mount, centrepiece for all the squabbles. This is where Mohammed rose to heaven and where God instructed Abraham to sacrifice his son. The magnificent Dome of the Rock mosque dominates the Mount, with the Al-Aqsa Mosque and Islamic Museum a little to its south.  The Western Wall, at the base of the mount, is the most accessible of the four walls of the Second Temple, built by King Herod. This accessibility has made it a popular place for Jewish worship. To complete the holy sites trilogy, pop over to the Christian Quarter for a visit to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre. This church is built over the site where Jesus was (probably) crucified, buried and resurrected - its appeal relies on its historical links rather than its architectural splendour. Most people arrive here after walking down the Via Dolorosa, the route Jesus followed as he carried his cross.  If you've had enough religion, head out of the Old City to bustling, fume-hazed, Palestinian East Jerusalem, or the cafes and shopping centres of New Jerusalem. To the west of the city you'll find Yad Vashem, the moving and disturbing Jewish memorial to the holocaust. To the east is the Mount of Olives, where Jesus ascended to heaven and where more earthbound folk can get a beautiful view of the city.  Where you stay in Jerusalem really depends on what you want out of your visit. The Old City and East Jerusalem have the cheapest places and the best atmosphere, and they're closest to the sights. On the downside, it's a long walk to the cafes and nightlife of the New City, and the Old City pretty much shuts down after dark. If you're prepared to pay more, and if living it up is your priority, head for the New City. For really good, really cheap food, try the Mahane Yehuda market to the west of the Old City. The best places for felafel are below the city walls in East Jerusalem, or in the shopping precincts of the New City.  
middle_east_israel_and_the_palestinian_territories_environment.html:  Environment  Smaller than Belgium, New Jersey or Tasmania, Israel is bordered by the Mediterranean Sea to the west, Lebanon and Syria to the north, Jordan to the east and Egypt to the south. The dominant geographic feature is the Rift Valley, which runs from Turkey, through Israel and down into Africa. It contains the Dead Sea, as well as the Jordan, Arava and Hula valleys and Lake Galilee. Israel is not a wet country (the Jordan is its only main river), and only the north sustains agriculture. The country's main body of water, the Dead Sea, is incredibly salty, as well as being the lowest place on the planet. It's flanked by the Judean Desert, which further south becomes the Negev.  Three geographic zones converge in Israel, and as a result you'll find a wealth of wildlife. Northern Israel is wet and mountainous, and supports laurel forests and streams filled with otters. The south of the country is desert, with wild tulips, irises and date palms. Israel is also the second largest flyway for migratory birds, with species from all over the world swapping hemispheres here. A fifth of the country is national parks - around 300 of them - and the Israelis are renowned for having turned the desert into a garden, as well as having reintroduced a number of species which have become locally extinct since Biblical times. For information on national parks and environmental issues, contact the Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel.  It's hard to pin down the Israeli climate - while it's snowing in Jerusalem it may well be 23 Celsius by the Dead Sea. Generally speaking, however, Israel is temperate and has two main seasons - winter and summer. Winter, from November to March, can be quite severe, and the north is very wet. Summer is hottest below sea level (up to 40 Celsius in Eilat), although it can still get quite cold at night in desert areas. In spring, strong winds can push the temperature up dramatically.  
middle_east_israel_and_the_palestinian_territories_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Unless you are a citizen of some African or Central American countries, India, Singapore or some ex-Soviet republics, you do not need a visa to enter Israel. Most tourists are allowed a three-month stay, but those entering overland from Egypt or Jordan may only be granted one month.You will be given a duplicate entry permit on arrival. Do not lose this very losable piece of paper! If you do not have a return ticket and money to cover your stay, you may be put on the next flight home. The main hassle with visiting Israel is avoiding having your passport stamped - most Arab countries will not allow you to enter if you have visited Israel. If you can, get officials to stamp your entry permit rather than your passport.Health risks: No particular risks in Israel, but you could consider vaccinations for hepatitis, typhoid, polio, tetanus and diphtheria if travelling to other Middle-Eastern countries.Time:GMT/UTC plus two hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Climate shouldn't be a major factor in your choice of when to go to Israel - whatever time of year it is, some part of the country is always pleasant. You might want to avoid major Jewish holidays, as the country fills up with pilgrims, accommodation prices go up and it's almost impossible to travel between cities.     Events  Not surprisingly, Israeli holidays and festivals are mostly religious. Keep an eye out for Jewish holidays, in particular, as the country really does grind to a halt on these days and you'll have to put your travel plans on hold. The Jewish sabbath day, Shabbat, is celebrated from sunset Friday to sunset Saturday, and no work may be done on this day. Yom Kippur, in October, is the holiest day in the Jewish calendar. This is the day of atonement, and it is marked with 25 hours of abstinence from just about everything, combined with prayer, contemplation and confession. The Feast of Passover celebrates the Jewish exodus, led by Moses, from Egypt. For a week in April everyone eats matza, a flat, tasteless bread. Jewish festivals aren't all abstinence and abnegation, though - during Purim, held in March to celebrate Jewish resistance to assimilation, everyone is required to get so drunk that they can't distinguish the words 'bless Mordechai' from 'curse Haman'.  The big one for Muslims is Ramadan, a month where everyone fasts between sunup and sunset to conform to the fourth pillar of Islam. If you're in Israel at this time, be sensitive to the fact that most of the Muslims around you are very, very hungry. Ramadan ends with a huge feast, Eid al-Fitr, where everyone prays together, visits friends, gives presents and stuffs themselves.    
middle_east_israel_and_the_palestinian_territories_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Beautifully situated between the scenic mountains of Gerizim and Ebal, Nablus is the largest of the West Bank towns. It's a typical, bustling Arab town with an enchanting old quarter. The Nablus skyline is punctuated by 30 minarets - one of the most impressive belongs to the An-Nasir Mosque. A few doors up from the mosque you will find Touqan Castle, an old Turkish mansion. Although it's privately owned, you should be allowed to have a look at the garden and the exterior architecture. East of the mosque is the oldest working Turkish bath in the country. Built around 1480, the lovingly restored bath has a hot room, a massage room and a central hall, where you can recline on cushions while you sip black coffee or mint tea. Bathing hours are sex segregated. You can get to Nablus by bus or share taxi from East Jerusalem.  
middle_east_istanbul_activities.html:  Activities  Istanbul is a city for walking and gazing. It's possible to see all the prime sights of the old city in one day, but instead of whirling around like a dervish, it's far better to visually divide and conquer the city's attractions by means of a number of planned walks. Istanbul isn't known for its golfing facilities, but there are a few courses close by if you're keen. The best swimming options are a day trip to Kilyos or Sile, or the closer Kizil Adalar (Princes' Islands). Most of Istanbul's pool facilities are privately owned and expensive; try sweet-talking reception staff at one of the big hotels into letting you use the pool. Gyms tend to be testosterone-fuelled, no-go-zones for women, with limited equipment - find a hotel gym instead.  Turks have perfected the art of socialising, and game playing is an important ingredient. Any tea garden should be able to come up with a backgammon board for free if you ask, though if you want to play billiards or bowling you'll need to head to Beyoglu. It's not exactly sporty, but sitting and yakking around a narglieh is a quintessential Middle Eastern experience. Even if you're not a smoker you may be lured by the fruity and flowery tobacco concoctions. Shopping in the thousands of shops of the Kapali Carsi (Grand Bazaar) in Beyazit, and Misir Carsisi (the Egyptian market or Spice Bazaar) in Eminonu qualifies as exercise. And don't forget to try one of the many hamams (Turkish steam baths) to purge your pores.  
middle_east_istanbul_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Topkapi Palace (Topkapi Sarayi) was the residency of Ottoman sultans for nearly 400 years after its construction in 1453. Its ornately gilded and marbled interior was the perfect setting for the dramas of the Ottoman Empire, and there appears to be a room for every event and every occasion - from a Circumcision Room to a cloakroom for Prophet Mohammed's cloak.  Although Topkapi grew and changed over the years it retained its basic four-courtyard approach. The first courtyard is the Court of the Janissaries, a kind of glorified army barracks where the elite soldiers of the sultanate mixed freely with merchants and tradespeople.  The Middle Gate (Ortakapi) led into the second court where the business of running the empire was conducted by the sultan and valide sultan (queen mother). Inside the court is a beautiful park-like setting with a series of pavilions, kitchens, barracks and kiosks that once served the daily needs of both the palace high-borns and hoi polloi. Of special interest is the Harem; the space that, contrary to lewd expectations of concubines and priapic emperors, was the equivalent of today's Royal Family living quarters. Every detail of Harem life was governed by tradition, obligation and ceremony, and the hundreds of rooms are lavishly furnished.  The Third Court, entered via the Gate of Felicity, also known as the Gate of the White Eunuchs, was (unsurprisingly) presided over by an elite corps of white eunuchs, personal aides and bodyguards to the sultan himself. The sultan had his private living quarters inside the Third Court. The Fourth Court was at the northeasternmost part of the complex and contains a restaurant, gardens, several kiosks and the Circumcision Room.  
middle_east_istanbul_facts.html:  When to Go  The best times of year to visit Istanbul are from April to June and September to October, roughly the months of spring and autumn respectively. During these months, temperatures are in the consistently mild range of 16-25 C (61-77 F) and the humidity is not too bad, plus the crowds aren't as big a nuisance as in the summer months. The wintry months from November to February have the highest rainfall (80-100mm/30-40in per month), and it's when spirits are most likely to be dampened.     Events  Turkey's Holy Month, Ramazan, sees much of the city's population fasting during daylight hours, although most restaurants and cafes remain open for those choosing not to participate and for non-Muslims. The festival of Seker Bayrami marks the end of Ramazan and is when the inhabitants of Istanbul embark on a frenzy of socialising, with an emphasis on the sweet tooth. It's one of the city's busiest times, a three-day national holiday when businesses close and public transport is heavily patronised.  An equally busy time for Istanbul is during Kurban Bayrami, Turkey's most important religious holiday. The four-day festival celebrates the almost-sacrifice of Isaac by his father Abraham on Mount Moriah and results in hotels being heavily booked and a dearth of space on public transport.  Other special events include the International Istanbul Film Festival in April, May's Conquest of Constantinople celebrations, June/July's International Istanbul Music Festival and International Istanbul Jazz Festival and September/October's International Istanbul Biennial.    
middle_east_istanbul_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Built in AD 532 and located diagonally across from Aya Sofya, this is the largest surviving Byzantine cistern in Istanbul. It's builder, Emperor Justinian, incapable of thinking in small terms, built it complete with columns, plinths and a Medusa head or two.  The cistern (sometimes referred to as the Sunken Palace) is 70m (230ft) wide and 140m (460ft) long, with 336 columns running down the major corridor. The head of Medusa is carved into two enormous blocks supporting the northwestern corner. Although the cistern has undergone a number of facelifts and a thorough spit, polish and clean between 1985 and 1988, water still drops atmospherically through the ceiling and carp frolic in the water. Coloured lights and Western classical music add a touch of ambience.  
middle_east_jordan_activities.html:  Activities  One of the best diving spots in the world is the coast south of Aqaba (in the far south of Jordan) down to the Saudi border. The Gulf of Aqaba here throngs with tropical fish and coral. There are at least four dive centres in Aqaba offering PADI courses for beginners up. If you are into hiking, try the areas around Petra and Wadi Rum. Wadi Rum is also good for climbing, with basic gear available on-site. You can also go camel trekking around Wadi Rum.  
middle_east_jordan_attractions.html:  Attractions  Amman, Jordan's capital, will certainly never win any prizes as the most interesting city in the world and, in fact, has only a few attractions. It's a busy, chaotic jumble of traffic and poor planning, but all roads lead to Amman, so you're bound to wind up here sooner or later. At least 5000 years old, Amman is sprinkled with Roman ruins, including a citadel and a forum. Downtown Amman is at the bottom of four of the city's many hills, and its where you'll find cheap hotels, banks and the sights. Flash places to stay and eat and embassies are on the main hill, Jebel Amman. Despite its drawbacks, Amman can be a very pleasant city, and it's certainly one of the friendliest you're likely to visit.  The restored Roman theatre, just to the east of Downtown, is the most impressive remnant of the Roman city of Philadelphia. Built in the 2nd century AD, it holds 6000 people and is cut into the side of a hill that once served as a giant graveyard. To the east stands the Odeon, built around the same time and used mainly for musical performances. The city's main fountain, or nymphaeum, is to the west. North of these ruins, on its own hill, is the Roman citadel, the garrison for centurions. Most of the buildings are now rubble, but you can see Roman, Byzantine and Muslim architecture. There's also a National Archaeological Museum on the site.  If Roman ruins aren't your cup of tea, you'll find little to excite you in Amman. Give the Folklore Museum and the Traditional Jewels & Costumes Museum, both in the Roman theatre, a try. To the north of the city you'll find the Monument to the Unknown Soldier, which includes a small museum on Jordan's military history.  Downtown Amman is thick with cheap hotels, charging from JD1.5 and up. It's also littered with shwarma stalls, cheap restaurants, western-style fast-food joints and the odd Chinese eatery. This is also the area for pubs if you fancy a tipple. Head north-west, out to Shmeisani, if you want genuine overpriced western junk food or pricier cosmopolitan and Arab food. For top-end digs, try Jebel Amman, to the west of the Downtown area.  
middle_east_jordan_environment.html:  Environment  Jordan is bounded to the north by Syria, to the north-east by Iraq, to the east and south by Saudi Arabia and to the west by Israel. Jordan has three distinct geographic zones: the fertile Jordan Valley which runs down the western side of the country; the East Bank plateau, where most of the main towns are; and the East Bank, a desert which stretches east into Syria, Iraq and Saudi Arabia. Jordan is a smallish country with a strange shape. An apocryphal story holds that the lumpy eastern border was created by Winston Churchill after a very liquid lunch.  The pine forests of the north give way to the cultivated slopes of the Jordan Valley, covered in cedar, olive and eucalypt. Further south, towards the Dead Sea, vegetation can't survive and the landscape is dominated by mud and salt flats. The desert regions of the country support the usual desert fauna - camels, desert fox, sand rats, hares and jerboas - while the hills to the north-east of the Dead Sea are home to boars, badgers and goats. Jordan is particularly noted for its aquatic life, and the Gulf of Aqaba has a huge variety of tropical fish and coral. The country's biggest sanctuary is the Shaumari Wildlife Reserve in the east, where gazelle and oryx, once common throughout Jordan, have been reintroduced.  Climate varies dramatically from one end of the country to the other. The Jordan Valley can be incredibly hot in summer (usually around 40 C), while Amman and Petra occasionally get snow in winter. The Plateau area is usually warm and dry, fluctuating between the low 20s and high 30s, while the desert suffers extremes of temperature - baking dry heat interspersed with freezing winds from Central Asia.  
middle_east_jordan_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All foreigners need a visa to enter Jordan. You can get one at the border or airport when you arrive, or from consulates in your country. Visas are valid for two weeks from entry, but can be easily extended up to three months. Cost depends on where you're from: Australians are charged $45, Americans pay US$60, while some nationals can enter for free. Keep your passport on you whenever you're near the Israeli border, as there are lots of military checkpoints.Health risks: No particular risks, but you should consider vaccinations for hepatitis, typhoid, polio and tetanus and diphtheria.Time: GMT/UTC plus 2 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit Jordan is in spring or autumn, when you can dodge the baking sun of summer and the freezing winds of winter. Although winter can be bitterly cold in most of the country, the Red Sea area and Aqaba are still very pleasant. If you're planning to travel through the rest of the Middle East, try heading north into Turkey around spring, or south into Egypt by autumn.     Events  Not surprisingly, Jordanian holidays and festivals are mostly Islamic. The big one is Ramadan, a month (around December) where everyone fasts between sunup and sunset to conform to the fourth pillar of Islam. If you're in Jordan at this time, be sensitive to the fact that most of the people around you are very, very hungry. Ramadan ends with a huge feast, Eid al-Fitr, where everyone prays together, visits friends, gives presents and stuffs themselves. Eid al-Adah, held around February, is the other big feast of the year, and marks the time when Muslims should make the pilgrimage to Mecca. Non-religious holidays include Independence Day, on 25 May.    
middle_east_jordan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  No one really knows who built this town, 10 km from the Syrian border and about 20 km east of Mafraq. The strange black basalt settlement is in the south of the city of Hauran. It is thought to have been founded in the 2nd century AD, and at one stage was part of the defensive line of Rome's Arab outposts. It continued to flourish into Umayyad times, but the earthquakes which hit Jordan in 747 wiped out Umm Al-Jimal, and the city was never rebuilt.  Most of the remaining buildings were once the houses and shops of ordinary people. Among the few larger buildings still standing are a combined barracks/church building, and a ruin known as the Western Church. You can visit Umm Al-Jimal in a day trip from Amman.  
middle_east_kuwait_activities.html:  Activities  The Persian Gulf provides ample opportunities for swimming, windsurfing, sailing, snorkelling and scuba diving almost year round, though in Kuwait waterlovers better check first on the presence of mines and other explosive devices around beaches and in the water.  
middle_east_kuwait_attractions.html:  Attractions  In the years since liberation, Kuwait City has developed into a remarkably easygoing place, though not without a price. The National Museum, once the pride of Kuwait and its centrepiece, used to house the Al-Sabah collection, one of the most important collections of Islamic art in the world. During the occupation, however, the Iraqis systematically looted the exhibit halls. Having cleaned out the building, they smashed everything they could and then set what was left on fire. A hall at the back of the museum complex's courtyard has been restored and is sometimes used for temporary exhibits. Because of the loss of the National Museum's treasures, the Tareq Rajab Museum, a private collection of Islamic art housed in the basement of a large villa, is all the more important.  A small building near the National Museum, Sadu House is a museum and cultural foundation dedicated to preserving Bedouin arts and crafts. It's also the best place in Kuwait to buy Bedouin goods. The house itself is built of gypsum and coral, and there's some beautiful decorative carving around the courtyard. More impressive to the country's Muslims is the huge, modern Grand Mosque, opened in 1986, which cost millions to build and can accommodate over 5500 worshippers.  Designed by a Swedish architectural firm and opened in 1979, the Kuwait Towers have become Kuwait's main landmark. The largest of the three rises to a height of 187m (615ft). The upper globe houses a two-level observation deck, which is open daily and overlook the emir's Sief Palace. The largest tower's lower globe has a restaurant, coffee shop and banquet rooms.  
middle_east_kuwait_environment.html:  Environment  Tiny Kuwait sits at the north-western tip of the Persian Gulf, bordered to the north and west by Iraq and to the south by Saudi Arabia. It's about the size of Slovenia or the US state of New Jersey. Kuwait's land is mostly flat and arid with little or no ground water. The desert is generally gravelly, and the only vegetation in existence is scrub. The only significant geographic feature is the now infamous Al-Mutla ridge, where Allied aircraft massacred a column of retreating Iraqi forces in the closing hours of the Persian Gulf war.  In the summer (April to September) Kuwait is hellishly hot; its only saving grace is that it's nowhere near as humid as its neighbours. The winter months are often pleasant, featuring some of the region's coolest weather, with daytime temperatures hovering around 18 C (64 F) and nights being genuinely chilly. Sandstorms occur throughout the year but are particularly common in spring.  
middle_east_kuwait_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Everyone except nationals of other Gulf States needs a visa to enter Kuwait. Kuwait does not issue tourist visas; large hotels can sponsor visas. If your passport contains an Israeli stamp, you will be refused entry to Kuwait.Health risks: Unexploded bombs and land minesTime:GMT/UTC plus 3 hoursElectricity: 220V and 240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit Kuwait is in May or October - right before or right after summer, when the temperatures are civilised.     Events  Just about everything that can close will close on a Muslim holiday, so it's important to know when they fall. Kuwait's religious holidays follow the Muslim lunar calendar, so the corresponding dates of the western calendar vary each year. Major events include Ramadan, the month of dawn-to-dusk fasting (which ends in January or December through 2002); Eid Al-Fitr, the three day festival of feasting that marks the end of Ramadan; Ghadir-e Khom, which commemorates the day that the Prophet Mohammed appointed Emam Ali his successor; and Rabi-ol-Avval, the birthday of Mohammed. Liberation Day on 26 February is not an official holiday but everyone seems to treat it as one.    
middle_east_kuwait_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Al-Jahra, 32km (20mi) west of Kuwait City, is where invading troops from Saudi Arabia were defeated (with British help) in 1920. The town's only conventional site is the Red Fort, a low rectangular mud structure near the highway, that played a key role in the 1920 battle. Al-Jahra is also the site of the Gulf War's infamous 'turkey shoot' - the Allied destruction of a stalled Iraqi convoy as it attempted to retreat from Kuwait.  
middle_east_lebanon_activities.html:  Activities  Lebanon has fabulous trekking opportunities in its mountains and gorges. It's usually a relatively short distance between villages, so planning overnight stops is not a problem if that's the kind of hiking which appeals to you. There are 6 main ski resorts in Lebanon, offering varying degrees of difficulty. Equipment hire is available at all resorts, and the cost is reasonable.  There aren't many sandy beaches on the Lebanese coast; much of the swimming is from rocks or artificial platforms built on jetties. Of the sandy beaches, the best can be found in the far south of the country, just south of Tyre. There are also reasonable beaches near Byblos and at Chekka, near Tripoli. The rocky bathing sites often make good snorkelling spots; water-skiing, windsurfing and sailing are all popular too.  
middle_east_lebanon_attractions.html:  Attractions  Once known as the Paris of the Middle East, Beirut really took a beating during the 17-year war in Lebanon. The city hasn't really recovered from the bombardments and the influx of refugees, and the destruction, rebuilding, overcrowding and chaos are often a shock to new arrivals. Situated smack in the middle of Lebanon's Mediterranean coast, Beirut is a city of contrasts: beautiful architecture exists alongside concrete eyesores; traditional houses set in jasmine-scented gardens are dwarfed by modern buildings; winding old alleys turn off from wide avenues; and swanky new cars vie for right of way with vendor carts. Although there's not much to see here anymore, it's still a city of vibrancy and charm.  The Hamra area, in the north-west of the city, is now home to the city's banks, hotels, restaurants, cafes and post office. It's also a great place to window shop and soak up the atmosphere. North of Hamra, the American University of Beirut has a small museum of archaeology, although it's not as impressive as the National Museum which re-opened, post-reconstruction, in 1999. The museum's collection of Phoenician figurines is particularly interesting. The Sursock Museum in east Beirut is housed in a splendid Italianate style 19th century villa. The interior is also tres stylish, and exhibits include Turkish silverware, icons, contemporary Lebanese art and a small but interesting library.  A visit to Beiru Central District (known colloquially as 'downtown') will give you a good idea of what the city went through during the war. Parts of the area are being restored, others have been bulldozed and others are an apocalyptic landscape of burnt-out shells. The centre of Downtown, the Place des Martyrs, has been almost completely bulldozed (only the emotive Martyrs Statue still stands), and a huge billboard has been erected to show what the city has in mind for the area. The Omari Mosque, sometimes known as the Grand Mosque, is one of the few historic buildings still standing: built in the Byzantine era as a Crusader church, it was converted to a mosque in 1291.   Pigeon Rocks are the most famous natural feature of Beirut. These offshore rock arches are a lovely complement to Beirut's dramatic sea cliffs, and locals tend to congregate here to watch the sunset and get away from the traffic noise. It's a delight to wander along the Corniche, Beirut's coastal road, and just take in the sea air, stop to drink a coffee served from the back of a van or sample some produce from a push-cart vendor.  
middle_east_lebanon_environment.html:  Environment  Lebanon is located on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea, surrounded by Syria to the north and east, and bordered by Israel to the south. It's one of the world's smallest countries, measuring roughly 180km (110mi) from north to south and 50km (30mi) from east to west. Despite its modest size, it has a number of completely different geographical regions. There's a very narrow, broken, coastal strip which contains all the major cities. Inland, the Mount Lebanon Range rises steeply to a dramatic set of peaks and ridges - the highest, Qornet as-Sawda, is over 3000m (9840ft). Further inland, the range drops steeply to the 150km (92mi) long Bekaa Valley, which runs parallel to the coast at an elevation of 1000m (3280ft). The Bekaa is a major wine producing region and, until recently, a major producer of cannabis. The Anti-Lebanon range rises in a sheer arid massif to the east of the Bekaa Valley, forming a natural border with Syria.  The most famous flora in Lebanon - the cedar tree - is now found on only a few mountaintop sites, notably at Bcharre and near Barouk in the Chouf Mountains. These lonely groves are all that remain of Lebanon's great cedar forests which, in biblical times, covered much of the country. That said, Lebanon is still the most densely wooded of all the Middle Eastern countries: many varieties of pine flourish on the mountains and much of the coastal land is cultivated with fruit trees.  Lebanon's mountain areas are home to birds of prey, and the nature reserve near Ehden has golden and imperial eagles, buzzards, red kites, Bonelli's eagles, Sardinian warblers and Scop's owls. Marine birds, both resident and migratory, can be spotted in the Palm Islands Park off the coast of Tripoli. Green turtles and Mediterranean monk seals inhabit the waters surrounding the park. As for wild land mammals in Lebanon, there's nothing more exciting than the odd hedgehog.  Lebanon's ecology has been under a lot of pressure due to the civil war and increasing industrialisation. During the war, pollutants and rubbish were dumped in the sea and rivers, and unplanned buildings sprang up everywhere. Lack of government control meant that unlawful quarrying and logging went unchecked in many mountain areas. Various conservation organisations are attempting to rectify the damage and protect the natural environment with legislation and reserved areas.  With such a diverse topography, it isn't surprising that the weather varies considerably from region to region. Broadly speaking, Lebanon has three different climate zones - the coastal strip, the mountains and the Bekaa Valley. The coastal strip has cool, rainy winters and hot, sometimes stifling, Mediterranean summers. The mountains have a typical alpine climate. Many people head to the hills to escape the oppressive summers of Beirut and come back again in winter for the snow. The Bekaa Valley has hot, dry summers and cold, dry winters with snow, frost and fierce winds.  
middle_east_lebanon_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All nationalities need a visa to enter Lebanon. Australian, Canadian, most EU, New Zealand and US passport holders can obtain a visa on arrival. Entry refused if holding used or unused, expired or valid visa for Israel, or having any Israeli stamp endorsed on passport.Health risks: Vaccinations recommended for polio, tetanus and typhoidTime:GMT/UTC plus 2 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  For sun worshippers, the time to come to Lebanon is the summer season from June to mid-September. The weather is hot and dry, though very humid on the coast. To many people's surprise, Lebanon is becoming increasingly popular as a winter sports destination. It has a number of ski resorts and the ski season runs from December to May. During May, the weather on the coast is warm enough for swimming and the country is carpeted with flowers. If your luck is running, you can catch the end of the ski season, sunbathe on the beach and get fresh flowers in your room. Autumn is also scenic: by October the most oppressive heat is over and it's a pleasant time to visit.     Events  Most holidays are religious, and with so many different sects in Lebanon there are plenty of excuses to celebrate. The principal Islamic holidays are tied to the lunar hijra calendar which is about 11 days shorter than the Western calendar, meaning that Islamic holidays fall 11 days earlier each year. Major events include Ras as-Sana (New Year's Day), Achoura, a day of public mourning observed by Shiite Muslims which commemorates the assassination of the grandson of Mohammed, and Ramadan, a month of dawn to dusk fasting. The end of Ramadan is marked with Eid al-Fitr, the Festival of Breaking the Fast.   Mar Maroun, the patron saint of the Maronites, is celebrated on 9 February, and Christian Easter celebrations take place twice, once according to the Western calendar, and again according to the Eastern Christian churches. Secular holidays include Independence Day (22 November) and Qana Day (18 April), an official day of mourning for the massacre at Qana in 1996 in which 107 Lebanese civilians were killed by Israeli shells at a UN camp. More happily, there's a world-renowned four day arts festival in Baalbek each July.    
middle_east_lebanon_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Some 50km (30mi) southeast of Beirut lies Beiteddine (House of Faith), the name of both the village and the magnificent palace complex that lies within. The palace, perched on on 850m (2790ft) elevation, rises from the surrounding landscape like a fairy tale vision; a Scherezadean delight rendered with Italianate flair (the architects were, in fact, Italian). Work began on the palace in 1788 but wasn't completed for another 30 years, during which time Emir Bashir, the Ottoman-appointed governor, oversaw the building of a monument that would reflect the power and glory of his reign.  Visitors to Beiteddine have to be grateful for the Ottoman's streak of egomania. The result is one of the finest remaining examples of 19th-century Lebanese architecture which even the Israeli invasion could not destroy (it is estimated that 90% of the palace's rare and precious contents were lost). Its grandeur is partly due to the three main courtyards, huge vaulted stables, small museums, guest apartments, water fountains, marble portals and marquetry, and luxuriously decorated and domed hammams (bathhouses) that dot the complex, and partly due to its collection of Byzantine mosaics. Many were excavated from the ancient city of Porphyrion and kept for sake-keeping at Beiteddine throughout the war. It is thought to be one of the most spectacular mosaic collections in the eastern Mediterranean, if not the world.  The village itself hosts a festival every summer in July and August, featuring an eclectic mix of inernational and Arab musicians, singers, dancers and actors.  
middle_east_oman_activities.html:  Activities  The variety of terrain in Oman makes weekend mountain and desert motoring particularly worthwhile. Water sports are the recreational mainstay of many of the five-star hotels. The main ones in Muscat all either have a beach of their own or have rights to somebody else's, and sport small fleets of sailboats, windsurfers and pedal boats. Several have diving gear available for guests.  
middle_east_oman_attractions.html:  Attractions  Oman's capital enchants visitors in a way that no other city in the Gulf can even begin to match. Maybe it's because Muscat doesn't have that slightly artificial feel which typifies so much of the rest of the region. Muscat, Mutrah and Ruwi are the capital's core districts. Muscat, the old port area, is the site of the sultan's main palace and a fascinating place to wander around, but it has few shops and, except for the old city walls, it isn't exactly bursting with sights. Mutrah, 3km (2mi) north-west of Muscat, is the main trading and residential port area. A few kilometres inland from Muscat and Mutrah lies Ruwi, the capital's modern commercial district.  There are three forts in Muscat, all of which took on their more or less present form in the 1580s during the Portuguese occupation of Muscat. Mutrah Fort sits on a hill while Jalali and Mirani forts guard the entrance to Muscat. All of the forts are still used by the police and/or military and are closed to the public, but it's okay to photograph them. Muscat has by far the best aquarium in the Gulf. All of the specimens on display are native to Omani waters and most are accompanied by thorough descriptions in English. The Oman Museum, in the Medinat Qaboos, west of Muscat, covers the entire sweep of Oman's 5000-year history. There are also a displays on shipbuilding, Islam and fort architecture. In Ruwi, the National Museum has sparkling displays on Omani silverwork, and the Sultan's Armed Forces Museum, in the Bait al-Falaj fort, has an excellent outline of Omani history.  You could easily spend a day in Mutrah. Start off early at the fish market, then head down to the souk for a cup of tea and a wander around the most interesting bazaar in Arabia. To the east, a restored watchtower looks out over Mutrah. The climb is steep and involves more than 100 steps, but the view from the top is worth it.  Muscat's best value rooms are along the Mutrah Corniche. If you spend only a little above rock-bottom you'll get good views and great atmosphere. There are several small restaurants along the Corniche, too, and several good bets in Ruwi.  
middle_east_oman_environment.html:  Environment  Oman occupies the eastern corner of the Arabian Peninsula, bordered by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to the north-west, Saudi Arabia to the west and Yemen to the south-west. At its northernmost point it's just over 50km (30mi) south of Iran across the Strait of Hormuz. Pakistan and India are, respectively, 500km (300mi) and 1000km (600mi) across the Arabian Sea to the east. Oman is slightly smaller than New Zealand or the US state of Kansas, though the part of Oman's border with Saudi Arabia that runs through the Empty Quarter is in dispute, and Oman's exact size isn't known. The Musandem Peninsula forms the country's northern tip, which is separated from the rest of the country by the United Arab Emirates' eastern coast and includes the only coast Oman has on the Persian Gulf. The Omani enclave of Madha is entirely surrounded by the UAE and lies halfway between the Musandem Peninsula and the rest of Oman.  Oman's diverse geography includes rugged coasts, placid beaches, craggy mountains, salt flats, oases and deserts. The northern coastal strip along the Gulf of Oman is known as the Batinah coast, a sand and gravel plain separated from the rest of the country by the Hajar Mountains. The highest peak is Jebel Akhdar ('green mountain') at 2980m (9775ft). Oman also has two large areas of salt flats, one in the central west and another opposite Massirah Island, off the eastern coast, and just south of the popular Wahiba Sands desert area.  Oman has one of the world's most rigourously green governments, and a fascinating array of animals thrives in the protected areas. Sanctuaries have been set aside for rare Arabian oryx, giant sea turtles (which come to Oman to breed), the Arabian tahr (a wild goat which nearly became extinct but is now flourishing), Arabian wolf and leopard, striped hyena and the sooty falcon. The sultan has devoted much attention to the country's plant life: coastal areas are preserved and there are National Protected Areas scattered around the country.  Its varied geography means Oman has a wide variety of climatic conditions. Muscat is hot and humid from mid-March until October and pleasantly warm from October to March. In the southern Salalah area, humid weather with temperatures approaching 30 C (90 F) is common even in December. The Salalah area gets drenched by monsoon rains from June to September.  
middle_east_oman_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Unless you are a citizen of the GCC (UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain or Qatar), you need a visa to enter Oman and it is valid for one entry, it can not be extended. Visas can be difficult to obtain; it might be easier to have an Omani travel agent or hotelier arrange your paperwork, primarily the No Objection Certificate (NOC). A road pass is necessary if you plan to travel by car. If your passport shows any evidence of travel to Israel you will be denied entry to Oman.Health risks: MalariaTime:GMT/UTC plus 4 hoursElectricity: 220/240V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The temperate months of mid-October to mid-March are the best time to visit. Avoid the June to September monsoon season in the south. Non-Muslims should bear in mind that, over the next few years, Oman will be celebrating the end of Ramadan in January or December, the pilgrimage to Mecca in April or March, and the Prophet's Birthday in July or June.     Events  Secular holidays observed in Oman are New Year's Day (1 January), National Day (18 November) and the Sultan's Birthday (19 November). The two latter holidays are somewhat fluid, and also tend to be celebrated twice. The National Day festival features all sorts of highly visible official celebrations, but the main significance of this day for visitors may be that everything closes down.  The Islamic holidays of Eid Al-Fitr (the end of Ramadan), Eid Al-Adha (the pilgrimage to Mecca), the Islamic New Year and the Prophet's Birthday are all observed in accordance with the Muslim calendar. Eid Al-Fitr will be observed in January or December through 2001. Eid Al-Adha in April or March. The two Eids are marked by traditional celebrations and dancing in the streets.    
middle_east_oman_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Sur has a lot going for it, starting with a nearly ideal location. It's a quiet place but has great beaches, impressive forts, a great Marine Museum and an active dhow yard where traditional fishing vessels are built. At any given time, a dozen or more dhows may be under construction, making this a great place to visit. Just beyond the dhow yard is a small ferry that will carry you across the narrow sound to Ayega, a village where many of the dhow builders live. Although Sur is only 150km (93mi) down the coast from Muscat as the crow flies, by road it is a bit over twice that distance, making it an effort to get to. There are three buses a day between Muscat and Sur.  
middle_east_qatar_activities.html:  Activities  There's not a lot of nature hospitable to human activity in Qatar, so visitors keen for a bit of a workout - be it in the gym, on the tennis court or in the pool - should head for one of Doha's big hotels, most of which have health clubs. These are generally open to non-guests for a small fee. South of Doha, there are beaches along the road to Umm Said, but they're nothing to write home about. Desert excursions (or 'wadi bashing') are a great way to wile away the time in Qatar - most head for areas south-west of Doha along the road to Salwa.  
middle_east_qatar_attractions.html:  Attractions  Around the Gulf, Doha has earned the unenviable reputation of being the dullest place on earth. You will be hard-pressed to find anyone who'll claim the place is exciting. That said, there's nothing wrong with Doha - you're unlikely to get shot or mugged or die from cholera. The bay is pleasant and there are enough interesting sites around town to keep you occupied for a day or two. Doha is also the only place in Qatar with hotels (and an airport), so even if you're travelling around the country, you'll be stopping through here.  The Qatar National Museum occupies what was once the palace of Shaikh Abdulla Bin Mohammed, emir from 1913 to 1951. The museum includes an aquarium over two levels: the top floor is full of stuffed fish, but there are live ones in the appealing surrounds of the basement. The sea turtles are probably the best thing here. Other collections include an interesting piece on seafaring and traditional celestial navigation methods, and displays on Islam, desert life, astronomy, the oil industry and the traditional lifestyle of the Qatari people.  The Ethnographic Museum is in a restored traditional Qatari house, found in the centre courtyard of a new souq shopping complex. The museum looks at life before the oil boom and explains how an ordinary family would have lived. The house includes one of the Gulf's few remaining wind towers, a traditional form of air conditioning in the region.  Doha's fort is really just another museum, fairly similar to the National Museum. There are some good displays on traditional crafts, including carving, goldsmithing, rope-making and weaving. There's also a postal museum, but you'd have to be a keen philatelist to make the trip. If you're on a 'roller coasters of the world' tour, don't miss Aladdin's Kingdom, the only amusement park in the Gulf where you can ride the wild rails.  
middle_east_qatar_environment.html:  Environment  The Qatar peninsula, shaped a bit like a thumb, juts northward into the Persian Gulf from the east coast of the Arabian Peninsula. It is about 160km (90mi) long and 55km (35mi) to 80km (50mi) wide. Including its small islands, Qatar is just a bit smaller than the US state of Connecticut. This is one flat country - the highest part is only 40m (130ft) above sea level. It's also dry, with most of the country covered in gravelly desert with virtually no natural vegetation.  Qatari fauna is limited to birds, such as the houbara, and to animals that are pretty hard to spot, such as bats and sand cats. You will, of course, see camels, but because Qatar doesn't have much in the way of vegetation, it never had the huge herds you'll see in other parts of the Middle East.  Summer lasts from May to September, and temperatures at that time generally average 35 C (95 F), although it can get up to 50 C (122 F). The 90% humidity adds to the discomfort. The winter months (December-February) are much milder with pleasant, cool evenings. Throughout the year, but especially in spring, Qatar is subject to sandstorms, and the rainstorms that hit the country in December and January cause many of the roads to close.  
middle_east_qatar_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Everyone except nationals of other Gulf States needs a visa to enter Qatar. Embassies and large hotels within the country can sponsor visas. Israeli passport holders are not allowed in Qatar.Health risks: NoneTime:GMT/UTC plus 3 hoursElectricity: 230V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Because the heat is so fierce in the summer and sandstorms are so common in spring and winter, the best time to visit is November or late February to early March. During these times you are most likely to enjoy bearable temperatures with a minimum of wind.     Events  Qatar's holidays are primarily Islamic. The big one is Ramadan, a month when everyone fasts between sunrise and sunset to conform to the fourth pillar of Islam. In 1998 and 1999, Ramadan is in December. Ramadan ends with a huge feast, Eid al-Fitr, during which everyone prays together, visits friends, gives presents and stuffs themselves silly. Eid al-Adha, held around March, is the other big feast of the year, marking the time when Muslims should make the hajj (pilgrimage) to Mecca. Qatar's only non-religious holiday is National Day, on 3 September.    
middle_east_qatar_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Zubara is rich in history, although nothing you'll see around it even hints at this. Until about 100 years ago, Zubara (near Qatar's north-western coast) was the country's main settlement. For almost 200 years it was controlled by the Al-Khalifa, Bahrain's ruling family, but hotly contested between them and Qatar's Al-Thani family. The fort you see today was built in 1938, shortly after the Al-Thanis wrested the settlement from Bahraini control once and for all. It was used by the military well into the 1980s. Several of the rooms around the fort's courtyard have displays of items, mostly potsherds, found at or near the fort. A couple of kilometres beyond are the ruins of some much older coastal fortifications, probably from the 17th or 18th century. There are also the excavated remains of a city.  Zubara is 105km (65mi) north of Doha and is reached only by taxi or rental car.  
middle_east_saudi_arabia_activities.html:  Activities  Saudi Arabia's not exactly a high adrenaline, thrills 'n' spills destination. Desert drives, or 'wadi bashing', are popular throughout the country and it's usually fairly easy to find someone in the local expat community who can give you advice on where to go for a desert picnic, but there's not much else on offer. Although Saudi Arabia has plenty of coastline, watersports are pretty much out: it's hard to enjoy a dip when you have to keep covered from neck to ankle.  
middle_east_saudi_arabia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Although Riyadh has officially been the capital of Saudi Arabia since 1932, it played second fiddle to Jeddah until the 1970s. Built with oil boom money, Riyadh is now a high-tech oasis of glass, steel and concrete, home to huge hotels, even larger hospitals and one of the biggest airports in the world. The centre of Riyadh is called Al-Bathaa and is the oldest part of the city. Al Bathaa is home to the bus station, GPO and most other things a traveller needs. Most of Riyadh's places to stay are near the bus station, as are the coffee shops and shwarma stands.  The Riyadh Museum, to the west of Al-Bathaa, has all the usual stuff covering the history and archaeology of the kingdom from the Stone Age to early Islam. There's an interesting display on Islamic architecture and a separate Ethnographic Hall, with clothes, musical instruments, weapons and jewellery. Signs are in English and Arabic.  Once the citadel in the heart of Old Riyadh, the Masmak Fortress was built around 1865 and extensively renovated in the 1980s. Inside the mud fortress there's a nicely reconstructed traditional diwan (sitting room) with an open courtyard and a working well. The fortress is now a museum devoted to Abdul Aziz and his unification of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Other museums in Riyadh include the King Saud University Museum, which has a display of finds from archaeological digs, and Murabba Palace, with exhibits of traditional clothing and crafts.  The Al-Thumairi Gate, in the centre of town, is an impressive restoration of one of the 9 gates which used to lead into the city before the wall was torn down in 1950. The flash, new, modern Al-Thumairi Gate is just across the road. About 30km (20mi) out of town is one of the largest camel markets in the Middle East. It's open every day and is a fascinating place to wander around (despite the smell).  Riyadh's most interesting attraction, the ruins of Dir'aiyah, lie 30km (20mi) north of the city centre. This was the kingdom's first capital and is now the country's most popular archaeological site. Dir'aiyah was founded in 1446, reached the height of its powers at the end of the 18th century, and was razed in 1818. The reconstructed ruins include palaces, mosques and the city wall.  
middle_east_saudi_arabia_environment.html:  Environment  About 2.2 million sq km (0.85 million sq mi) in size, Saudi Arabia is mostly desert. It's bordered to the south-east by Oman, Yemen and the United Arab Emirates, to the north by Iraq and Kuwait, and to the west by Jordan. Western Saudi Arabia is dominated by a mountain chain which runs the entire length of the country, getting higher and wider to the south. About half the country (an area the size of France) is taken up by the Rub' al-Khali, or Empty Quarter, the largest sand desert in the world. A second great sand desert, the Nafud, stretches its way across the north-west of the country, while the centre and north of Saudi Arabia is mostly gravelly plains. The east is flat and low-lying, an area of sabkhas (or salt flats). Its main geographical feature is the gigantic Al-Hasa oasis.  Unsurprisingly, considering all that desert, there's not much in the way of flora and fauna in Saudi Arabia. There are a number of scrub species, as well as tamarinds growing in some deserts and evergreens in the forested regions of Asir. If it's fauna you're after, you'd better like camels. They're Saudi Arabia's most visible wildlife, although there are also nocturnal hedgehogs and sand cats in some areas, and Hamadryas baboons in Asir.  Saudi Arabia's deserts have extreme climates. From mid-April to mid-October, expect daytime temperatures of 45 C (113 F) or higher throughout the country. In the dead of winter (December to January) things cool down in the cities: it's only around 15 C (59 F) during the day, and can be colder in the central deserts overnight. In the coastal areas it rains regularly, with high humidity in the summer, but there's very little rainfall in the capital Riyadh.  
middle_east_saudi_arabia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: There is no such thing as a tourist visa for Saudi Arabia. You can enter the country with a visitor's transit or (if you're Muslim) hajj or umrah visa. To get a visitor's visa you will have to be sponsored by a Saudi individual or company. Another option is a 24 or 48-hour transit visa - to get one you have to prove that you had no choice other than to stop-over in Saudi Arabia en route to your final destination. You can now also visit the country as a non-Muslim if you join an approved (and expensive - US$5000 plus) organised tour.Health risks: No particular risks, but you should consider vaccinations for hepatitis ATime:GMT/UTC plus 3 hoursElectricity: 110V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to visit is between November and February when the climate is mild. The Asir mountains are at their best a bit earlier and a bit later than the rest of the country - during winter they are often locked in fog.     Events  Saudi Arabia's only holidays are Islamic. The big one is Ramadan, a month when everyone fasts between sunrise and sunset to conform to the fourth pillar of Islam. Ramadan is mandatory, even for tourists: if you're caught smoking, drinking or eating in public during this period, you can be sent to prison until the end of Ramadan. Ramadan ends with a huge feast, Eid al-Fitr, during which everyone prays together, visits friends, gives presents and stuffs themselves silly. Eid al-Adah, held around March, is the other big feast of the year, and marks the time when Muslims should make the pilgrimage to Mecca. The only non-religious festival is the Jinadriyah National Festival of folklore and culture, held every February.    
middle_east_saudi_arabia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This windswept plain in the far north-west of the country is one of the most compelling places in Saudi Arabia, and the spectacular rock tombs here are the kingdom's most famous archeological site. Most of them were carved between 100 BC and 100 AD, when Madain Salah was the second most important Nabatean kingdom after Petra (now in Jordan). The tombs were 'discovered' in the 1880s by Charles Doughty - you can read all about it in his Travels in Arabia Deserta.  Although Madain Salah's tombs are less spectacular than those at Petra, they're much better preserved - the rock here is harder and less prone to water damage. Be sure to see Qasr Farid, the largest tomb at Madain Salah. It is carved from a single large outcrop of rock standing alone in the desert. The Diwan, or meeting room, is carved into a hillside and would probably have been used as a cult site. Qasr al-Bint, the Girl's Palace (yes, that's where the word comes from), is a whole group of tombs carved into an outcrop of rock.  You really need a vehicle to get around Madain Salah, as the distances are large and the heat extreme. You might want to take an organised tour, as it's pretty difficult to get to the site - these go from both Medina and Riyadh. If you want to get there off your own bat, it's about 330km (205mi) north of Medina - many of the roads aren't signposted.  
middle_east_syria_activities.html:  Activities  Syria's main drawcard for leg-stretching types is hiking. There are no organised facilities for hikers, but there's plenty of appealing terrain. Possibilities include walking between Syria's Crusader castles or hiking the mountainous strip of land between Lebanon and Turkey. Unfortunately, there are no maps available, so you're obliged to follow roads.  If you've never had a Turkish bath, Syria is a good place to start. There are several good public baths in Aleppo and Damascus, and the full wash, steam bath and massage package does wonders for the body. Bathing is usually done in segregated sex groups.  
middle_east_syria_attractions.html:  Attractions  Damascus is Syria's largest city and capital. It grew up around the Barada River and Ghouta Oasis, which make life possible in an otherwise uninhabitable landscape. Damascus is possibly the world's oldest continuously inhabited city - there was a settlement here as long ago as 5000 BC. Today, its fascination lies in its mysterious oriental bazaars and the gracious, somewhat decayed, charm of some of Islam's greatest monuments. The centre of the city is Martyrs' Square - most of the restaurants and hotels are close by.  The epicentre of Damascus' charm is its Old City, surrounded by a Roman wall. The city's main covered market is the Souq al-Hamadiyyeh, a cobbled street of bustling crowds, hawkers and high-octane haggling. Opposite the end of the market is the Omayyad Mosque. Built in 705 on the site of ancient temples and a Christian cathedral, the mosque was designed to be the greatest ever. Despite being gutted in a fire in the 19th century, it's still a jewel of Muslim architecture, with several gorgeous mosaics and three original minarets.  Saladin, one of the great heroes of Arab history and the man who showed the Crusaders a thing or two, is buried in Damascus. Saladin's Mausoleum was built in 1193 - it's covered with a red dome and set in a pleasant garden outside the northern wall of the Ommayad Mosque. Azem Palace, south of the mosque, was built in 1749 from alternating lines of black basalt and white limestone - it's now home to the Museum of the Arts & Popular Traditions of Syria. In the Christian Quarter, in the east of the Old City, you'll find St Paul's Chapel, which marks the spot where the disciples lowered St Paul out of a window one night so that he could flee the Jews.  One of Syria's most graceful mosques is Takiyyeh as-Sulaymaniyyeh, just south of the Barada River. Designed in Ottoman style in 1554, it features alternating layers of black and white stone and two slender minarets. The National Museum, also south of the river, is worth at least one visit. The museum's facade was once the entrance to the Qasr al-Hayr al-Ghabi, an ancient military camp. Inside is a fantastic array of exhibits, including writings from the 14th century BC that use the world's first known alphabet, statuary from Mari that's over 4000 years old, two halls full of marble and terracotta statues from Palmyra, Damascene weapons, old surgical instruments from surgeons' graves, a collection of 13th century Qur'ans and a complete room decorated in the style of the 18th century Azem Palace.  
middle_east_syria_environment.html:  Environment  Occupying an area slightly larger than North Dakota and twice the size of Portugal, Syria is bordered in the south-west by Lebanon, in the south by Jordan, in the east by Iraq and in the north by Turkey. The country has four geographical regions: a fertile 180km (112mi) long coastal strip; the Jebel an-Nusariyah and Jebel Lubnan ash-Sharquiyyeh mountain ranges which form a 2000m (6560ft) high border with Lebanon; the cultivated steppes inland from the mountain range; and the stony Syrian desert of the south-east.  There's not much left of Syria's once-abundant mountain forests. The few remaining verdant bits are mostly yew, lime and fir trees, while elsewhere agriculture dominates. There's also very little to see in the way of animal life. Officially, wolves, hyenas, foxes, badgers, wild boar, jackals, deer, bears, squirrels and polecats roam the country, but you're unlikely to see anything more exciting than donkeys, goats and camels.  Syria has a Mediterranean climate with hot, dry summers and mild, wet winters, although inland it gets progressively drier and more inhospitable. On the coast, average daily temperatures range from 29 C (84 F) in summer (July) to 10 C (50 F) in winter (January). In the steppes area, where most of the cities are, expect temperatures of around 35 C (95 F) in summer and 12 C (54 F) in winter, while the desert can clock up temperatures of 46 C (115 F). Not much rain falls anywhere, but what there is falls mainly on the coast.  
middle_east_syria_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All foreigners need a visa, available at consulates or in some cases on arrival. If there is evidence of a visit to Israel in your passport, you won't be allowed in. Tourist visas are valid for 15 days and must be used within one month of being issued. Extensions are available.Health risks: Consider vaccinations for polio, tetanus, typhoid and hepatitis A and B.Time:GMT/UTC plus 2 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Spring (April to June) is the best time to visit, as temperatures are mild and the winter rains have cleared the haze that clogs up the views during the rest of the year. Autumn (September to November) is the next-best choice. If you go in summer (June to August), don't be caught without a hat, sunscreen and water bottle, especially if you're going to Palmyra or the north-east. Winter can be downright unpleasant on the coast and in the mountains, when temperatures drop and the rains begin.     Events  Not surprisingly, Syrian holidays and festivals are mostly Islamic. The big one is Ramadan, a month (the date changes every year) when everyone fasts between sunup and sunset to conform to the fourth pillar of Islam. If you're in Syria at this time, be sensitive to the fact that most of the people around you are very, very hungry. Ramadan ends with a huge feast, Eid al-Fitr, where everyone prays together, visits friends, gives presents and stuffs themselves. Eid al-Adah, another moveable event, is the other big feast of the year, and marks the time when Muslims should make the pilgrimage to Mecca. Non-religious holidays include the enticingly named Evacuation Day, on 17 April, and Correctionist Movement Day, on 16 November.    
middle_east_syria_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Bosra sits on a fertile plain littered with black basalt about 140km (87mi) south of Damascus. It once held pride of place on local trade and pilgrimage routes, but it has now sunk into obscurity. Despite this, it's a weird and wonderful place, built in, over and around old Roman buildings, like some sort of architectural strangler vine. The city is made almost entirely from black basalt, most of which has been filched from older buildings. It is also has one of the best preserved Roman theatres in the world.  The theatre is particularly unusual in that it was fortified and turned into a citadel. Nine towers were raised around the building and a deep moat dug to further protect it. Inside the citadel, you can still see the magnificent 15,000-seat theatre. When it was in use, the theatre was faced with marble and draped in silk, and during performances a fine mist of perfumed water was sprayed over the patrons to keep them comfy.  In amongst Bosra's shops and houses, you can also see the ruins of a nymphaeum, some baths, one of the world's oldest mosques, a 4th century monastery and a Nabatean gate. There's only one hotel in Bosra, and it's darn pricey, but you can get a direct microbus from Damascus or Der'a.  
middle_east_tehran_activities.html:  Activities  While Tehran offers fine opportunities for lovers of dodging unpredictable traffic, you'll have to go beyond the city for any other activity. Trekking is possible in the Alborz Mountains at Darband, Darakeh and Tochal, while from Karaj, it is possible to trek to the Caspian Sea. Mountaineering, rock climbing and even skiing is also possible to the north of Tehran.  
middle_east_tehran_attractions.html:  Attractions  This museum houses a marvellous collection including ceramics, stone figures and carvings dating from around the 5th millenium BC. Many of the impressive relics are taken from excavations at Persepolis, Isma'il Abad, Shush, Rey and Turang Tappeh and will probably mean more to you if you come here after you've visited the archaeological sites. The entrance fee allows you to visit the Museum of the Islamic Period next door, which contains Islamic art such as calligraphy, ceramics, woodcarvings and textiles.  
middle_east_tehran_facts.html:  When to Go  The best times to visit are during late spring (mid-April to early June) and autumn (late September to early November). Avoid coming in winter and the Iranian New Year (about 21 March) and two weeks after it. Many restaurants close between dawn and dusk during the month of Ramazan.     Events  Two festivals held in Tehran are the Iranian Epic Music Festival, usually held in April, and the Fajr International Film Festival, usually held in February. Tehranis also celebrate a number of religious and national holidays. Just about everything that can close will close on a religious holiday, so it's important to find out when they fall - dates vary each year. Major events include Ramazan, the month of dawn to dusk fasting; Eid-e Fetr, the one-day festival of feasting that marks the end of Ramazan; Qadir-e Khom, which commemorates the day that the Prophet Mohammed appointed Emam Ali his successor; and the birthday of Mohammed.  National holidays follow the Persian solar calendar, but still usually fall on the same day each year according to the Western calendar. The big bangers include the lustily titled Magnificent Victory of the Islamic Revolution of Iran on 11 February, which is the anniversary of Khomeini's coming to power in 1979, while the 10 days leading up to this day are often celebrated in Tehran with concerts and other cultural events. No Ruz or Iranian New Year (21 to 24 March) is celebrated enthusiastically, while the Heart-Rending Departure of the Great Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran on 4 June commemorates the death of Khomeini in 1989.    
middle_east_tehran_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If you want to flee the traffic fumes, head for the foothills of the Alborz Mountains and the walking trails of Darakeh and Darband. Though you'll have to walk a bit to get out of the developed areas and the paths and streams tend to be strewn with litter, the walks are worth taking. Along each trail are cafes, kababis (kebab shops) and vendors selling tasty treats.  
middle_east_turkey_activities.html:  Activities  Water sports are big in Turkey because of the beautiful coasts and beaches. Yachting, water-skiing, snorkelling and diving are well represented. Because of the many antiquities in the depths off the Turkish coasts, scuba diving is regulated - check before you immerse yourself in treasure. Turkey has plenty of mountains there for the climbing - the mountain climbing scene is small but enthusiastic. There is decent skiing at Bursa, on Mt Erciyes near Kayseri, and at Palandöken near Erzurum. Equipment can be rented at the slopes, but don't expect Alps-league facilities. Cycling through Turkey is eminently possible and mostly delightful, but you may wish to bring your own bike (and spares) as renting and selling good bikes is not yet widespread.  
middle_east_turkey_attractions.html:  Attractions  For many centuries the capital of the civilised world, Istanbul remains the heartbeat of Turkey. It's a well-worn but still glorious metropolis with about 12 million residents, an impressive setting straddling Europe and Asia, and an unchallenged place in the country's history, folklore, commerce and culture. Although it's packed, pungent and polluted, the Bosphorus Strait, which connects the Black and Marmara Seas, and the Golden Horn, a freshwater estuary, help to maintain a sense of openness and space. For several thousand years before the construction of the Bosphorus Bridge in 1973, the only way to go between the European and Asian parts of the city was by boat. A second bridge was completed in 1988, a third is planned and a metro has recently opened.  Istanbul's dateline spans 3000 years, so it's worth boning up your sense of history in order to be able to distinguish a hippodrome from a harem. The Topkapi Palace, residence of the sultans from the 15th century to the early 1800s, is a must see. The palace's harem (imperial family quarters) was much like a small village, housing up to 500 people at any time, including up to 300 concubines. The imperial treasury is another palace highlight. It's stuffed with gold, silver, diamonds and other flashy bits and bobs.   Aya Sofya, the Church of the Divine Wisdom, was built by Justinian in 548 when it was the greatest church in Christendom. A lot can happen to a building in 14 centuries, especially in an earthquake zone, and the church is now cluttered with buttresses, supports, kiosks and outbuildings which hug its massive walls. The interior's immense dome is still impressive, though. The Blue Mosque is a triumph of harmony, proportion and elegance: its exterior elicits the sort of eye-boggling, weak-kneed admiration which Aya Sofya's interior induces.  There's a serious danger of sightseer-overload in Istanbul but there are plenty of ways to lower the risk. Take a ferry cruise up the Bosphorus or wander the Grand Bazaar, a maze of narrow streets where you can buy a bangle, a carpet, or just browse. Uzun arsi Caddesi is the less-touristy alternative, where you'll encounter woodturners' shops, hunting equipment and clothing merchants. In the Beyoglu area, north of the bridge, it's always fascinating to take a stroll down Istiklal Caddesi, the main drag. This was where high-class Ottomans and colonial Europeans rubbed shoulders a century ago in a fusty festa of frock-coats and parasols. If you squint a little (okay, a lot), you may be able to imagine this grand street in its heyday.  Sultanahmet, in the old city, is the best place to look for a bottom-end or middle-range hotel. Taksim Square has many modern middle to upper-end places. The restaurants along Sultanahmet's Divan Yolu are the most obvious places to eat, but you'll be doing your money belt a favour if you head out of the tourist zone for a meal. There are lots of little places in the Grand Bazaar where you can sit and fill up slowly on a procession of small dishes. Istiklal Caddesi is also full of small grill joints - the nicest are probably up the side streets to the south.  
middle_east_turkey_environment.html:  Environment  Turkey's no footbridge between Europe and Asia. It's a 1700km (1050mi) drive from Edirne on the Bulgarian border to Kars on the Armenian border and a 1000km (620mi) hike from the Black Sea in the north to the Mediterranean in the south. Ticking clockwise from the northwest, Turkey shares borders with Greece, Bulgaria, Georgia, Armenia, Iran, Iraq and Syria. The country is no desert-and-palm-tree album either: mountains, rolling steppe, meandering rivers, rich agricultural valleys and a craggy, beachy 8400km (5200mi) coastline all muck in to keep Turkey interesting.  There are still considerable forests in northeastern Anatolia, the Black Sea area and along the Mediterranean coast, west of Antalya. Great swaths of wild flowers cover the steppes in spring making fine splashes of colour. Turkey has similar animal life to that in the Balkans and much of Europe: bears, deer, jackals, lynx, wild boars, wolves and rare leopards. The beautiful Van cat is a native: it has pure white fur and different-coloured eyes - one blue, one green. You're more likely to see cattle, horses, donkey, goats and sheep though. Turkish shepherds are proud of their powerful, fierce, Kangal sheep dogs which guard the flocks from wolves. Bird life is exceptionally rich, with a squawking mess of eagles, vultures and storks staking out airspace, as well as rare species such as the bald ibis.  The Aegean and Mediterranean coasts have mild, rainy winters and hot, dry summers. In Istanbul, summer temperatures average around 28-30 C (82-86 F); the winters are chilly but usually above freezing, with rain and perhaps a dusting of snow. The Anatolian plateau is cooler in summer and quite cold in winter. The Black Sea coast is mild and rainy in summer, and chilly and rainy in winter. Mountainous eastern Turkey is very cold and snowy in winter and only pleasantly warm in high summer. The southeast is dry and mild in winter and very hot in summer, with temperatures above 45 C (113 F) not unusual.  
middle_east_turkey_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of New Zealand, Japan, South Africa and most of the countries of Western Europe, need only a valid passport for stays of up to 3 months. Australian, UK and US citizens, as well as those from Austria, Canada, Israel, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, do need visas, obtainable in advance at a Turkish consulate, or upon entry to Turkey.Health risks: While no vaccinations are legally required, polio, tetanus, diptheria, typhoid, hepatitis A & B, rabies and TB are all present in Turkey: vaccinations should be considered. Travellers to Turkey's steamy regions (the Mediterranean coast east of Mersin and the irrigated areas of southeastern Anatolia around Sanliurfa) should also stock up on their favourite anti-malarial gear. It's also worth mentioning that thousands of people die in traffic accidents in Turkey each yearTime:GMT/UTC +2Electricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Spring (April to June) and autumn (September to November) are best. The climate is perfect on the Aegean and Mediterranean coasts then, as well as in Istanbul. In high summer the coastal resorts are stinking hot: your body may like to do as the locals do and take a siesta during the heat of the day. From late October to early April, the beach scene more or less shuts down. There's little rain between May and October except along the Black Sea coast, but from about mid-June, the mosquitoes come out in plague proportions in some areas. Eastern Turkey should really be visited from late June to September, as snow may close roads and mountain passes in the colder months.     Events  The dates for Muslim religious festivals are celebrated according to a lunar calendar; the dates are locked in every few years by Muslim authorities. Only two religious holidays are public holidays: Seker Bayrami, a 3-day festival at the end of Ramazan (30 days in December-January when a good Muslim lets nothing pass the lips during daylight hours), and Kurban Bayrami (March-April) which commemorates Abraham's near-sacrifice of Isaac on Mt Moriah. In commemoration of God permitting Abraham to sacrifice a ram instead of his son, every Turkish household who can afford a sheep buys one, takes it home and slits its throat right after the early morning prayers on the actual day of the bayram. Family and friends immediately cook up a feast. You must plan for Kurban Bayrami: most banks close for a full week, transportation will be packed and hotel rooms will be scarce and expensive.  Secular festivities include camel-wrestling in mid-January, in the village of Sel uk, south of Izmir; National Sovereignty Day, April 23, a big holiday to celebrate the first meeting of the republican parliament in 1920. Celebrations abound in summer: there's a sloppy oiled wrestling festival in early June at Sarayi i, near Edirne; the country Kafkasör Festival near Artvin in northeastern Turkey in the 3rd week of June; the International Istanbul Festival of the Arts (late June to mid-July); Bursa's Folklore and Music Festival in mid-July and Diyarbakir's Watermelon Festival in mid or late September. The whole country stops, just for a moment, at 9.05 am November 10, the time of Atatürk's death in 1938.    
middle_east_turkey_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Today the Gallipoli battlefields are peaceful places covered in scrubby brush, pine forests and farmers' fields, but this strategic peninsula has held the key to Istanbul for a millenium. Momentous battles have been fought here, including the 9 months of ferocious combat between Atatürk's troops and the Allies in WWI. Gallipoli is a fairly large area to tour, especially without your own transport (it's over 35 km (22mi) from the northernmost battlefield to the southern tip of the peninsula). The two best bases for a visit are  anakkale on the eastern shore, and Eceabat on the western, from which several companies run tours. Talk to other travellers before choosing a tour, as some guides tend to rush their charges around. The great battles of Gallipoli are commemorated each year during March (usually from the 12th to 19th) and it can be a bit tricky getting a hotel during this time. Ferries run from Eceabat, 45km (28mi) south-west of Gelibolu, across the Dardanelles to anakkale.  
middle_east_united_arab_emirates_activities.html:  Activities  Watersports are popular along the UAE's coast, and the tourist industry is keen to promote the country as a winter 'sea & sun' destination for Europeans suffering seasonal chills. Most watersports facilities, like dive centres or jetski hire operations, are part of upmarket hotels and are not generally accessible to independent travellers. Camel safaris can be arranged in Al-Ain. Desert safaris or 'wadi bashing', which involves zooming around the desert in a 4WD, can be organised in Dubai or Sharjah. For a rather more timid but highly surreal experience, there are a number of golf courses with real grass in Dubai, though you'll have to be a guest at a swanky hotel or be invited by a member to play. There are also dress regulations to meet, high fees to pay and water conservation issues to wrestle with.  
middle_east_united_arab_emirates_attractions.html:  Attractions  Dubai's is one of the last bastions of anything-goes capitalism - a city whose wealth is based on trade, not oil - and there's no place quite like it in the Gulf. There isn't a lot to see in Dubai but it's the most easygoing city in the region, has the best nightlife and boasts copious opportunities for duty-free shopping. It's well worth spending a few days wandering through the souks (markets) and along the waterfront to take in the city's atmosphere, but don't expect to find anything 'old' in Dubai. Fortunately it's the one place in the Gulf where that hardly seems to matter.  Of the UAE's seven emirates, Dubai has fought the hardest to preserve its independence and minimise the power of the country's federal institutions. It boasts the highest international profile of all the Gulf cities, hosting world-class golf and tennis tournaments, horse racing and desert rallies. It even brought the Miss World pageant to the Gulf in 1995. Dubai's wealth comes from the re-export trade: its merchants import goods and then re-export them rather than peddling them at home. In the past, 're-export' was basically a euphemism for smuggling, particularly of gold to India. Dubai's trade is now largely legal, and the gold has been replaced by consumer goods, which are trans-shipped to the Indian Subcontinent and the rest of the Arabian Peninsula; it also has its own oil reserves.  Dubai is really two towns: Deira to the north-east, and Dubai to the south-west. They are separated by the Creek ( al-khor), an inlet of the Gulf. The city centre is actually in Deira, and most of the budget hotels are located in Deira's souk. The best way to start exploring Dubai is to hire an abra, (a motorised water taxi) for a boat ride along the Creek. It's also interesting to walk along the docks on the Deira side of the Creek, where dhows bound for ports ranging from Aden to Mumbai (Bombay) load and unload their cargo.  The Dubai Museum occupies the Al-Fahaidi Fort, built in the early 19th century on the Dubai side of the Creek. The fort is thought to be the oldest building in Dubai and for many years it was both the residence of Dubai's rulers and the seat of government. The museum contains displays on the history of Dubai, Bedouin life, seafaring, flora and fauna, weaponry, Emirati dances, musical instruments and local archaeology. The slick multimedia presentation on the city is well worth catching and includes a re-creation of the Dubai souk as it looked in the 1950s. If you want to see what the city looks like today, head 4km (2.5mi) south to the viewing gallery on the 37th floor of the World Trade Centre.  Beyond the multimedia displays, not much remains of the city's old covered souks, though there are remnants just east of Dubai's and just north of Deira's abra docks; both have wind towers (the Gulf's unique architectural form of non-electrical air-conditioning) nearby. The highlight of the city's markets is Deira's gold souk, just north-west of the abra dock. It's a fitting testament to the city's smuggling past, and even seasoned veterans of Middle Eastern gold markets are blown away by the scale of the souk, the largest such market in Arabia.  If you're in Dubai to indulge in some serious shopping, you're in mall heaven. One of these beasts opens every year and it's always bigger and flashier than the last. Cheap electronics can be found in the Beniyas Square area of Deira, not far from the covered souk. Nightlife is centred around the expensive restaurants, bars and discos in the upmarket hotels. It ain't cheap, but if you've been travelling elsewhere in the Gulf you'll just be happy that it exists at all - at least until you hear the awful lounge singers who are standard fare in most venues.  Dubai is on the UAE's northern coast, approximately 125km (80mi) east of Abu Dhabi, accessible from the capital by shared taxi and minibus.  
middle_east_united_arab_emirates_environment.html:  Environment  The United Arab Emirates occupies the rhinoceros horn that protrudes into the Persian Gulf from the north-eastern tip of the Arabian peninsula. It's bordered by Saudi Arabia in the south and west, and Oman in the east. Its northern coast faces Iran across the Persian Gulf, while Qatar is just 50km (30mi) to the north-west. The seven emirates are Abu Dhabi, Ajman, Dubai, Fujairah, Ras al-Khaimah, Sharjah and Umm al Qaiwain. Combined, they cover an area roughly the same size as Portugal. The Emirate of Abu Dhabi represents 85% of this total; the smallest of the emirates, Ajman, measures only 250 sq km (100 sq mi).  Much of the interior of the UAE is featureless desert, running to the edges of the Empty Quarter, the largest sand desert in the world, which occupies south-eastern Saudi Arabia. The UAE's coastal areas are marked by salt flats, while the northern and eastern sections of the country are green and inviting with striking mountain scenery. Fauna includes the Arabian leopard and ibex, but you're unlikely to see more than camels and wild goats. In spring and autumn flocks of birds migrating from Central Asia and East Africa can sometimes be seen in the country's north. Outside of the mountainous areas of Fujairah and Ras al-Khaimah, much of the UAE's vegetation is the result of the government's 'greenery' programme: even the natural groves of date palms in the Buraimi Oasis on the country's eastern border have been supplemented by acres of grass and trees planted in municipal parks.  From May to September humidity is high and daytime temperatures commonly hover around 40 C (105 F) in Abu Dhabi and Dubai. In the eastern coastal cities of Fujairah and Khor Fakkan, the climate is slightly less hostile thanks to occasional breezes; the mountains above Ras al-Khaimah also provide some relief. Average daily high temperatures drop to the more comfortable 22-30 C (70-85 F) range for the rest of the year, though it can be very windy in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah and very cold in the desert areas around Al-Ain. Rainfall is non-existent between May and October, and negligible for much of the rest of the year - though it can turn foul in December and January, which can make getting around tricky.  
middle_east_united_arab_emirates_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: British citizens and nationals of most Gulf countries do not require visas; Gulf citizens can stay as long as they want, Britons for up to three months. All other visitors are required to have visas. Your hotel can sponsor you for a 15-day, nonrenewable transit visa or a one-month renewable visit visa. Note that if your passport shows evidence of travel to Israel you will be denied entry to the UAE.Health risks: Hepatitis A & BTime:GMT/UTC plus 4 hoursElectricity: 220V (240V in Abu Dhabi), 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time of the year to visit the UAE is between November and April, when the weather is at its best. The rest of the year you're more likely to be running from one air-conditioned environment to the next instead of getting out and about and exploring. Ramadan, the muslim month of fasting, is strictly adhered to in the UAE; that means no eating, drinking or smoking in public from sunrise to sunset. Places that normally serve alcohol stop serving it during this month. Ramadan is in December-January for the next couple of years.     Events  Religious holidays are tied to the Islamic Hijra calendar, so dates vary from year to year. Eid al-Fitr (the end of Ramadan), Eid al-Adha (Pilgrimage), Lailat al-Mi'raj (the Ascension of the Prophet), the Prophet's Birthday and the Islamic New Year are the main celebrations. Secular holidays include New Year's Day (1 January) and National Day (1 December).    
middle_east_united_arab_emirates_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The northernmost of the UAE's emirates, Ras al-Khaimah is one of the most beautiful spots in the country. It's an area of carefully irrigated abundant greenery surrounded by sea, desert and mountains. The relaxing city of Ras al-Khaimah welcomes tourists but doesn't bend to them. Its attractions include an interesting museum, an atmospheric old town, souk and fishing port, and the best camel racing in the country. There are several interesting archaeological sites nearby, including the Queen of Sheba Palace in Shimal 5km (3mi) to the north. Ras al-Khaimah is approximately 100km (60mi) north-east of Dubai, accessible by service taxi.  
middle_east_yemen_activities.html:  Activities  Yemen has some fabulous areas for trekking, but keep in mind that you're on your own - there's no organised trekking in the country, and that means no marked trails and no maps. Because the country is sparsely populated, you'll need to be self-sufficient. The Haraz mountains or al-Mahwit are both good areas because they're densely populated and the people are friendly. East of San'a camping is not welcome at all.  Although Yemenis don't really get into water sports, the expat population has found some pretty good diving spots. The Yemeni seas are rich in sealife, and popular with people who either want to gawk or eat. You won't be able to rent equipment, so bring your own.  
middle_east_yemen_attractions.html:  Attractions  If you believe the Yemenis, San'a is one of the first sites of human settlement, founded by Noah's son, Shem. Other sources suggest the city has been around since at least the 2nd century AD, and up until 1962 the city still nestled within its ancient walls, surrounded by green fields. These days, San'a is a sprawling city of over a million people, but the walls still stand - many houses in the Old City are over 400 years old, and the area within the walls is the largest preserved medina in the Arab world. Everywhere you go you'll see facades ornamented with elaborate friezes, and beautiful takhrim windows with their delicate fretworking and coloured panes. Mosque minarets rise above the tower houses, and the city is sprinkled with bathhouses, some dating from the Ottoman occupation of Yemen.  The central market, Souq al-Milh, is a collection of around 40 small souqs, each specialising in one product - you'll find vegetables, spices, qat, raisins, pottery, clothes, woodwork, copper and silver. In the Jambiya Souq you can watch craftsmen making complex ceremonial weapons. If you're a Muslim, you should visit Al-Jami' al-Kabir, the great mosque on the western side of Souq al-Milh. The mosque, which is closed to non-Muslims, was built around 630AD, when Mohammed was still alive.  The city's National Museum lives in the House of Good Luck, a former royal palace built in the 1930s. Its five floors have displays on the ancient kingdoms of Yemen (including Saba), the country's Islamic history and its modern folk culture. The Museum for Arts & Crafts, also in an old palace, specialises in artefacts from everyday Yemeni life, while the surprisingly good Military Museum has the low-down on the country's many wars.  You'll have no trouble finding a cheap hotel in San'a, but you may have trouble finding one you want to stay in. If you're prepared to pay a bit, you can stay in one of the city's converted tower houses. There are plenty of small restaurants scattered around the city, with the best conglomeration around Bab al-Yaman.  
middle_east_yemen_environment.html:  Environment  Yemen is bounded to its north by Saudi Arabia, and to the east by Oman. A narrow strip of land, called the Tihama, runs along the coast - to its west the country's highest mountains rise to well over 3000m (9840ft) then slope away to a high fertile plateau. In these high areas you can still find active volcanoes and hot springs. The sands of the great Arabian desert pour into the country from the north and stretch down to the southern coast. Two-thirds of Yemen is uninhabited.  Yemen's flora and fauna have been all but wiped out by the combination of over-cultivation, deforestation and desertification. Along the Tihama, vegetation runs from salt-loving mangroves to sand-dwelling grasses and shrubs. More rain falls in the foothills, and a few evergreen plants such as palms and acacias grow there. Tropical plants grow in the mountains' higher reaches, including commercial plantations of tropical fruits, while the highest slopes have been cultivated by coffee and qat growers. The plateaux have been turned over to sorghum, vegetable and spice growers. About the only creatures you're likely to see are birds migrating to and from east Africa.  Yemn is the least sandy place on the Arabian peninsula, thanks to the the twice-yearly monsoon winds which dump huge quantities of water on the country. The wet season runs from March to May and from July to August, while the highest temperatures are between June and August. The Tihama and the southern coast are hot and humid throughout the year but without much rain - daytime temperatures are around 32 C (60 F) in winter, 40 C (104 F) in summer. The highlands are much milder, and San'a averages daytime temperatures between 25 C (77 F) and 30 C (86 F) - at night it can get down to freezing. Most of the rain falls in the western mountains between July and August, while no rain ever falls in the desert.  
middle_east_yemen_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Everybody needs a visa to enter Yemen. If your passport carries evidence of a visit to Israel you will not be granted a visa. Tourist visas generally last one to three months.Health risks: None, but consider vaccinations for hepatitis A & BTime:GMT/UTC plus 3 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  When you go depends on where you're going. If you're going to the Tihama, Aden or Hadhramawt, don't go in July - the heat will be unbearable. If you're heading for the highlands, December nights can be very, very cold. From October to February most of the country is dry and dusty, and in March, April and August the temperature is pleasant but you'll get very wet. April-May and September-October are probably the best bets wherever you're heading.     Events  Religious holidays are tied to the Islamic Hijra calendar, so dates vary from year to year. Eid al-Fitr (the end of Ramadan), Eid al-Adha (Pilgrimage), Lailat al-Mi'raj (the Ascension of the Prophet), the Prophet's Birthday and the Islamic New Year are the main celebrations. Secular holidays include the Day of National Unity (22 May), Revolution Day (26 September), National Day (14 October) and Independence Day (30 November).    
middle_east_yemen_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Once the capital of the kingdom of Ma'in, Barqish stands beside a wadi in the north of Yemen. The city was a thriving centre for a few decades around 400BC; it had huge city walls, punctuated by dozens of impressive watchtowers, which surrounded a tightly built urban settlement.  There's not a lot left of Barqish these days - you can still see the city wall, but the rest of the city is deserted and ruined. Old stones with Minaean inscriptions have been used as patches on the city wall, and you'll find the ruins of a mosque and a temple in the centre of the town.  Baraqish is about 100km (60mi) north-east of San'a. There's no public transport between the two cities, so you'll need to take a tour or hire a taxi in Ma'rib, the closest big town.  
north_america_acapulco_activities.html:  Activities  Visiting Acapulco's beaches tops most visitors' lists of things to do here. Just about everything that can be done on, under or above the water is done in Acapulco. On the bay, water-skiing, wind surfing and parasailing are all popular activities. The smaller beaches have boats of all kinds: sailboats, fishing boats, motorboats, pedal boats and canoes. They also usually hire out snorkeling gear, inner tubes and water bicycles. Cruises are available day and night; they range from multilevel boats with blaring salsa music and open bars to yachts offering quiet sunset cruises around the bay. Boats will take you scuba diving, deep-sea fishing or whale watching. We could go on...  Away from the water, there is bowling, roller skating, horse riding, ultralight aircraft rides and bungee jumping. As well, there are golf courses and scores of tennis courts. Mountain bike tours and jungle tours can also be arranged. For a fast, white-knuckle boat ride on the R o Papagayo, try the New Zealand import, the Shotover Jet. And if it's the kind of thing that takes your fancy, you can watch a bullfight, held weekly at the Plaza de Toros. Of course if the nightlife has kept you up to the wee hours, you can always sleep all day.  
north_america_acapulco_attractions.html:  Attractions  What began in the 1930s as a boyish challenge has become one of Acapulco's most famous spectacles. It's hard to beat the drama and touch of madness of the clavadistas who gracefully launch themselves from heights of up to 45m (148ft) into a narrow chasm, timing their fall to meet the surf crashing below. The divers first scale the cliff face, then wisely pray at a small shrine before leaping over the edge (so did Elvis Presley in the film Fun in Acapulco). There are five daily performances with at least three divers performing each time, each trying to outdo the others in showmanship. During the last show of the evening they carry flaming torches. Afterwards the performers gather to accept tips, and will happily share their stories - and their scars.  There's a great view of the action from the terraces of the Plaza Las Glorias El Mirador Hotel, where celebrities have scrawled their admiration for the divers on the wall. La Quebrada is also a superb spot for watching sunsets. It's easy to get there on foot or by taxi from the Z calo (town square).  
north_america_acapulco_facts.html:  When to Go  If you're wanting to avoid the tourist crowds, you've got the wrong city - the tropical climate of Acapulco means the weather is close to perfect all year round. Tourism is seasonal, however, with high season from the middle of December until the end of Easter, and another flurry of activity during the July and August school holidays. Probably the busiest time of the year in Acapulco is Semana Santa, the week leading up to Easter, when the city fills with visitors and there's lots of action in the discos, on the beaches and all over town. If you're traveling at this time or Christmas-New Year, you'd be wise to book transport and accommodations in advance.     Events  Acapulco never needs an excuse for a party, but like all of Mexico it loves its fiestas. The Festivales de Acapulco, held for one week in May, features Mexican and international music at many venues around town. International film festivals include the Festival de Cine Negro (Black Film Festival) held the second week of June, and the Festival de Cine Frances (French Film Festival) held for a week in late November. As Mexico is the location of many mysterious UFO sightings, the Congreso Mundial OVNI (World UFO Congress) is held regularly in Acapulco, usually in December. The Festival de la Virgen de Guadalupe, for Mexico's patron saint, is celebrated all night on December 11 and all the following day, with street processions accompanied by small marching bands, fireworks and folk dances, all converging on the cathedral in the Z calo (town square), where costumed children congregate. There are also smaller religious celebrations, regattas and fishing tournaments held throughout the year.    
north_america_acapulco_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  About 10km (6mi) northwest of Acapulco, Pie de la Cuesta is a narrow strip of land bordered by the beach and ocean on one side and the large, freshwater Laguna de Coyuca on the other. Compared to Acapulco, it's quieter, cleaner, closer to nature and much more peaceful. Swimming in the ocean at Pie de la Cuesta can be dangerous, however, due to a riptide and the shape of the waves. Laguna de Coyuca, three times as large as the Bah a de Acapulco, is better for swimming. Its smooth waters are also good for water-skiing; several clubs provide the equipment. Boat trips on the lagoon can take you to three islands, one of which is a bird sanctuary, or you can cross to the jungle where Sylvester Stallone filmed Rambo. Horse riding on the beach is also popular.  Pie de la Cuesta has many beachside restaurants specializing in seafood, and it's the traditional place for sunset-gazing (the name translates as 'foot of the sunset'). There's no nightlife, but the sunset atmosphere is a great precursor to an evening's partying back in Acapulco. Buses marked 'Pie de la Cuesta' leave regularly from La Costera.  
north_america_alaska_activities.html:  Activities  Alaska has enshrined its greater than great outdoors and there are more ways to partake than you can count on frostbitten fingers and toes. Some of the best hiking trails are the Chilkoot Trail near Skagway, which was used by gold prospectors late last century; the Resurrection Pass Trail on the Kenai Peninsula; and the Pinnell Mountain Trail near Hyder, which has great views of the midnight sun. Alaska has some great paddling opportunities at Misty Fiords National Monument, Glacier Bay National Park and Katmai National Park. Blue-water paddling - coastal touring in ocean kayaks - is very popular throughout Southeast and Southcentral Alaska, and is also good at Muir Inlet in Glacier Bay National Park or Tracy Arm Fjord, south of Juneau. Fishing in ubiquitous rivers, streams and lakes yields rainbow and cutthroat trout, Dolly Varden, Arctic char and grayling.  
north_america_alaska_attractions.html:  Attractions  To many of the nearly 50% of Alaskans who don't live in Anchorage, the city barely qualifies for residency in the state because it doesn't epitomise the landscape. Anchorage is an urban sprawl, shopping mall, traffic crawl kind of joint and it doesn't sit well with your average husky-wielding Alaskan who figures she's a frontier-woman just off to fill in some blank bits of the map. For the traveler, Anchorage is unavoidable, being the hub of Alaska's road system and an international air junction; luckily it's also a pleasant city to dip into. Downtown is laid out in a simple lettered and numbered grid, making it easy to stride like a local as soon as you touch base. Many of the city's attractions are within easy walking distance or you can take advantage of over 62mi (100km) of cycle tracks and pedal your way around.  The Anchorage Museum of History & Art showcases the history of the state and the area's indigenous culture, as well as exhibiting artwork by regional, national and international artists. Native artwork is featured at the Heritage Library Museum where there are well-regarded collections of tools, costumes and weapons, original paintings and lots of scrimshaw.  There are a number of good parks in and around the city. On the west side of the city, Earthquake Park offers an interesting display detailing the massive 1964 earthquake that caused 130 acres (52 hectares) of land to slip 2000ft (600m) towards the sea. When not overrun by a tour bus or two, the best feature of the park is the excellent panorama of the city skyline set against the Chugach Mountains. On a clear day, Mt McKinley and Mt Foraker are visible to the north. The most scenic cycle route is the 11mi (18km) coastal trail which begins at the western end of the city proper and breezes along the shore, where you may even spot the backs of beluga whales. The Chugach State Park to the east of Anchorage is an enticing destination for day-walkers. The most popular place is the Flattop Mountain Trail, a mostly moderate climb, except for the unstable footing on loose rocks near the 3550ft (1065m) summit.  Finding a place to stay in Anchorage is rarely a problem. The downtown area is replete with hostels and inexpensive motels and cosy B&Bs are easy to find all over the inner-city. This area also has a wonderful selection of cafes and eateries, and is the place to crawl for pubs and bars. Anchorage has Alaska's busiest airport for both domestic and international traffic, although once you're grounded, trains or buses can be cheaper and more convenient for most destinations. The local People Mover bus service is excellent.  
north_america_alaska_environment.html:  Environment  Easily the USA's largest member, Alaska is a huge state, able to give each of its residents more than a square mile in which to do their morning star jumps. The state measures 1400mi (2254km) north to south and 2400mi (3864km) across the girth, comprising several distinctive regions. The Southeast, also known as the Panhandle, is a 500mi (805km) coastal strip including the wildly serrated Inside Passage, a lifeline for isolated towns inaccessible by road. The mountain ranges, glaciers and fjords of this region continue through Southcentral in its 650mi (1047km) swerve of shore and bend of bay from the Gulf of Alaska to Kodiak Island. The Interior is Alaska's heartland, with milder weather than the state's extremities and scenic delights which include Denali National Park, Alaska's number one attraction. The Bush is larger than all the other regions combined, claiming the whole western swathe, Arctic Alaska and the southwest island chains. Bush Alaska is generally accessible only by charter plane, rendering it prohibitively expensive for many travelers, but enabling the maintenance of a lifestyle unaffected by the state's booming summer tourist industry.  If you believed the hype, you'd reckon Alaska was shoulder to shoulder wildlife. Well, the salmon aren't yet picketing for high-rise streams, but it is pretty packed here if you're talking fins, four legs, flippers or flappers. The moose population is around 150,000, and black-tailed deer, caribou, mountain goats, dall sheep, bears and wolves are frequently seen picnicking from the urban periphery to back of beyond. Harbor seals, porpoises, dolphins, humpback and minke whales, sea lions, sea otters and walruses are all common marine mammals, making an arctic ocean plunge a decidedly social affair. Late summer salmon runs (when thousands of fish swim upstream to spawn) choke many Alaskan streams. The action is airborne too, and the sky is alive with birdlife, most notably the impressive bald eagle, which has a wingspan that often reaches 8ft (2m). The flora of Alaska is diverse, changing dramatically from one region to the next. Among the 33 native tree species are Sitka spruce (the state tree), western hemlock, alder, white spruce, cottonwood and paper birch.  Alaska's climate is not known for its consistency, and it's not uncommon for more than one season to be crammed into a single day. Don't stake your raincoat on it, but Southeast and Southcentral Alaska generally experience high rainfall and moderate temperatures with summers averaging 60-70 F (15-21 C). In the Interior precipitation is light but temperatures fluctuate wildly. The climate in the western coastal region is mostly cool with summer temperatures around 45 F (7 C) with fog and rain common along the coast. Most of Alaska experiences the magic of the midnight sun, a surfeit of daylight which apparently sanctions the kind of madness which finds whole families undertaking 6mi (10km) hikes after dinner and softball teams convening for a witching hour hit-up.  
north_america_alaska_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Conditions of entry are the same as those for the rest of the USA. Most visitors require a visa. However, Canadians need only proof of citizenship and citizens of the UK, New Zealand, Japan, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Portugal, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland can stay up to 90 days without a visa. Remember to collect appropriate documentation to re-enter the US if you leave via Canada.Health risks: Giardia, hypothermia, motion sickness, rabies, sunburn & windburnTime: UTC minus 9 hoursElectricity: 110/120V, 60HzWeights & measures: ImperialTourism: 1.1 million visitors per year When to Go  From June through August is when travelers like to range throughout the state, making the most of the 'warmer' temperatures. The peak weeks - from early July through mid-August - tend to attract colossal crowds to popular sites like Denali National Park and the Kenai Peninsula. Travel during the 'shoulder season' - May and September - offers not only mild weather, but also a good chance for off-season discounts on accommodation and transportation. Most Alaskan festivals and events take place during the summer periods of 24-hour daylight.  For the most part, the Alcan (Alaska Highway) can be driven throughout September and early October without too much fear of being holed up by blizzards. But you should still equip yourself for some cold, rainy weather. Arriving in Alaska in late April is possible in the Southeast and the Kenai Peninsula, but the Interior is usually still elbow deep in slush and mud. During October, the Southeast and Southcentral regions are pelted with rain most of the time, while in the Interior and Fairbanks there will be snow. The state is attempting to attract more visitors during the winter months (November through February) by promoting skiing and dog-sledding trips, and the prominence of the Northern Lights at this time of year; -50 F (-45 C) temperatures are the fine-print warnings.     Events  Alaskans are a celebratory people, especially in the summer when 24-hour daylight turns the most sober and sane into the most blithering and bonkers. Most towns have Summer Solstice (June 21st) festivities. The festival in Fairbanks is one of the most popular, making the most of nearly 23 hours of sun to stage a midnight baseball game. Sitka lets off June summer steam with log-chopping, axe-tossing and tree-climbing competitions. Independence Day (July 4) is a very popular holiday with celebrations of particular note in Ketchikan and Anchorage, including parades, contests and softball games, all rounded off with impressive firework displays. On the second weekend in July, Talkeetna is the proud host of the Moose Dropping Festival, a high-class bash popular with second-class shot-putters wondering why dropping-tossing isn't an Olympic event. Golden Days in Fairbanks in late July celebrates the discovery of gold with parades and sports, giving a chance to the less athletic in events like the Hairy Legs Contest.    
north_america_alaska_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If you are intrigued by valleys, canyons, towering mountains, icefields and glaciers but don't feel like battling the crowds of Denali National Park, you'll probably welcome Wrangell-St Elias National Park. An adventure into this preserve requires time and patience rather than money, but it can lead to a once-in-a-lifetime experience. Encompassing 13.2 million acres (5,280,000 hectares), Wrangell-St Elias - located along the Canadian border - is a true wilderness, both diverse and plentiful. Species in the preserve include moose, black and brown bears, dall sheep, mountain goats, wolves, wolverines and beavers; three of Alaska's 11 caribou herds also call the park home. It's possible to hike or paddle to a glacier or float through the vertical-walled Nizina River Canyon. There is limited accommodation at nearby McCarthy or the 'ghost' town of Kennicott. It's possible to drive to the preserve but bus and air companies service McCarthy frequently.  
north_america_albuquerque_activities.html:  Activities  You can leave downtown and be on the slopes at the Sandia Peak Ski Area in less than an hour. It has 26 downhill skiing runs for a range of abilities, plus the cross-country skiing attraction of the Sandia Crest National Skiing Byway. You can access Sandia Peak via the Tramway or via Hwys 14 and 536. Mountain bikers can hop on Sandia Peak's chairlifts with their bikes in summer for some giddy downhill cycling.  If you only have time for one hike while you're in town, the beautiful 7mi (11km) La Luz Trail to the top of the Sandias is the one to take. The trail passes through high desert and pine forest, and offers spectacular views over Albuquerque, the West Mesa and the mountain ranges beyond. There are gentle hiking trails in the 270 acre (108 hectare) Rio Grande Nature Center, 4 miles (6.5km) northwest of downtown. Trails wind through meadows and groves, and there's a chance you'll spot raccoons and maybe even a coyote. There are several trails in the Albert G Simms Park which both hikers and mountain bikers can enjoy.  The Sandia Lakes Recreation Area, approximately 10mi (16km) north of Albuquerque, has three lakes well stocked with trout and bass for the angler not wanting to come away empty handed; fishing permits are required. About a dozen companies offer hot-air balloon rides around Albuquerque; ask at the visitors bureau for a comprehensive list. Spanish priests began growing grapes and making wine in the mid-17th century, and local wine production experienced a revival in 1960s. There are now several vineyards in or near the city offering tastings and tours.  
north_america_albuquerque_attractions.html:  Attractions  From its founding in 1706 until the arrival of the railroad in 1880, Old Town was the spiritual, social and geographical center of Albuquerque. Built around a central plaza, the area is now essentially a four block historical and architectural museum, atmospheric but punctuated with a glut of art galleries and souvenir shops. The most famous building is San Felipe de Neri Church, on the plaza's northern side. Built in 1706, the church has undergone several renovations and is now much changed from its original modest adobe form, but retains its humble interior. Other visitor must-see's are the Albuquerque Museum of Art, History and Science, just northeast of the plaza, and, on the northeastern fringe of Old Town, the New Mexico Museum of Natural History.  
north_america_albuquerque_facts.html:  When to Go  It's best to visit Albuquerque in the shoulder seasons of spring and fall, since summer temperatures can reach 100 F (37 C). Even at the height of summer though, cottonwood trees shade city streets and the nights tend to be cool and forgiving, making the weather in Albuquerque friendlier than in many other places in the Southwest. Of course, if you're a skier, the season in the nearby mountain resorts runs roughly from late November to late March. The biggest events in town take place in September and October.     Events  The New Mexico State Fair comes to town in the second week of September and runs for two weeks. It's widely regarded as one of the finest in the United States. Attractions include the PRCA rodeos, Native American dances, live music, thoroughbred horseracing, midway rides, livestock demonstrations and an unusually wide variety of foods. The city's other major event is the International Balloon Festival, which attracts almost a million spectators over nine days in October. There's a variety of events and competitions, but the most magical time is after sunset, when hundreds of huge balloons are internally illuminated and hover over the festival grounds like giant Chinese lanterns.  Always wanted to go to a powwow? Try the Gathering of the Nations Powwow, featuring dance competitions, displays of Native American arts & crafts and the 'Miss Indian World' contest. The powwow is held in late April in that most traditional of venues - the University of New Mexico indoor sports arena. Replicas of patron saints are paraded through the streets amid much brouhaha and traditional New Mexican entertainments on Founders Day (on the closest Saturday to 23 April), which celebrates the city's settlement in 1706. Throughout the summer, the city holds a whole swag of outdoor concerts - these include SummerFest, Zoo Music, and the Jazz and Salsa Under the Stars series.  Public holidays include New Year's Day (1 January), Martin Luther King Day (third Monday in January), Presidents Day (third Monday in February), Memorial Day (last Monday in May), Independence Day (4 July), Labor Day (first Monday in September), Columbus Day (second Monday in October), Veterans Day (11 November), Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in November) and Christmas Day (25 December). Admission Day, although not a formal public holiday, is observed on 6 January.    
north_america_albuquerque_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This monument is home to about 15,000 prehistoric rock etchings, most created around 1300 AD by Indians who hunted in the area. Four trails of varying degrees of difficulty access the petroglyphs; the most challenging - Mesa Point Trail - climbs to the top of a lava flow and has good views of the petroglyphs, the surroundings and the encroaching housing developments. The national monument is 9mi (14km) northwest of downtown Albuquerque and is best accessed by car.  
north_america_anchorage_activities.html:  Activities  What can't you do in the Anchorage area? Even if this area is the most urbanized outpost in this great state, most outdoor enthusiasts would have a hard time reaching boredom. With 122mi (196km) of paved bicycle paths alongside roads and within parks, the city is prime for bicycling. The best spots include Chester Creek Trail, Tony Knowles Coastal Trail, Turnagain Arm Bike Path and Chugach State Park. Rock-climbing monkeys can explore several faces along Seward Hwy, or climb indoors at the Alaska Rock Gym on Fairbanks St. The mountainous area also offers endless hiking opportunities. Good sites include Flattop Mountain Trail, Wolverine Peak Trail, the Ramp and Williwaw Lakes Trail.  Within the city, there are companies offering walking tours and bus tours. More than a dozen charter companies in Anchorage offer flightseeing tours, an expensive but breathtaking way to peek at the region's grandeur.  
north_america_anchorage_attractions.html:  Attractions  At the doorstep of Anchorage, this gorgeous park stretches its haunches across a half-million acres; it's the second-largest state preserve in Alaska and the third-largest state park in America. For eagle-spotting, vista-viewing and wildflower-meandering, there are many picturesque pockets of nature to explore here. Excellent mountain biking begins at the Hillside area trailheads, which you can reach via bus; the buses are now equipped with bicycle racks.  Chugach is one of the most heavily used parks in Alaska, offering a wide variety of developed trails suitable for all levels of hiking. Flattop Mountain is a popular intro to elevated Alaska, or a week can easily be spent traversing trail-less areas, and exploring one valley and ridgeline after another. These wilds are close to the city, but they are wilds nonetheless; come prepared.  
north_america_anchorage_facts.html:  When to Go  Weather forecasts often don't mean much in Alaska, as unpredictability is the order of most days. That said, however, Anchorage air usually averages about 60 or 70 F from June to August. The city, which is shielded by the Kenai Mountains, has an annual rainfall of 14in (35cm) and annual snowfall of over 70in (178cm). The average temperature in January is 13 F, but can dip to 8 F or get as 'high' as 21 F. The Anchorage Bowl - the city and surrounding area - has its fair share of overcast days, especially in early and late summer. The longest day is summer solstice (June 21), when the sun sets for a mere four hours. In late June and July the nightshade is replaced by dusk.     Events  If, as you're casually strolling the city, your hat flies off as hundreds of dogsleds zoom past you, you'll know you're in time for March's Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race, in which participants tackle over 1000mi (1609km) of Alaskan wilderness between Anchorage and Nome. In June, brandish that sword in celebration of the days of yore at the Alaska Renaissance Festival. One of the biggest celebrations in Anchorage, and statewide, occurs June 21, the longest day of the year; the place to be is the Moose Pass Summer Solstice Festival, where the BBQ chicken alone is worth the trip. A couple weeks later, Independence Day (July 4) always sparks up with plenty of events. In August, the annual Alaska State Fair in Palmer, just north of Anchorage, is the one-stop shop for rodeos, entertainers and pumpkins the size of igloos.    
north_america_anchorage_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This is the spot for bush-plane spotters; Lake Hood is the world's busiest floatplane base (and ski-plane base in the winter). Just about every type of small plane imaginable can be seen jetting onto and off of the lake's surface.  If seeing live air traffic leaves you thirsty for more, check out the Alaska Aviation Heritage Museum on the south shore of Lake Hood. In an effort to preserve Alaska's unique approach to aviation, the museum has films, displays on pilots, vintage aircraft and an observation deck. An afternoon swim in adjoining Spenard Lake is a nice way to end the trip.  
north_america_aspen_activities.html:  Activities  Most wintertime visitors to Aspen follow their poles straight to the slopes, for some top-of-the-line downhill and cross-country skiing. They share the area's white space with those snowboarding, snowshoeing or telemarking. When the ice melts, new possibilities rise to the surface. Aspen's trails are ideal for hiking and mountain biking, and areas like Independence Pass offer much sought-after rock-climbing. The more flighty may want to try out paragliding, which can be done solo or tandem. Oh, and did we mention Roaring Fork River, prime for river-rafting and fishing? Of course, you could just grab the closest leather jacket and hot mama (or papa) and, like many of the visiting biker crew, rent a Harley hog for a loud motorbike cruise down the mountain roads, scarf flying behind in the wind.  
north_america_aspen_attractions.html:  Attractions  From 'blue cruisers' to 'double-blacks,' Ajax's slopes boast a variety of terrain type, though don't expect anything too green and easy. The globe's ace skiers have zoomed through here, after all, and they aren't going to bother with the bunnies. On its palate are 76 trails wending through 673 acres (272 hectares). Snowboarders, don't fret: since 2001, you're allowed in, too.  After the snow has melted - or before it has started its fall - the Silver Queen Gondola carries passengers from the center of town to the top of the mountain, covering a vertical expanse of 3000ft (914m). Up top, guides from the Aspen Center of Environmental Studies await to escort you around the natural setting.  
north_america_aspen_facts.html:  When to Go  Colorado's climate is influenced by its semiarid tendencies as well as its mid-continental location, which accounts for a huge variety in daily thermometer readings. The Rocky Mountains act as a barrier intercepting much of the west-born moisture, temperatures plummet with height gains, and weather up in these climes is, for lack of a more helpful work, unpredictable.  When to go really depends on why you're going. If you want Aspen for the sheer love of the white stuff, you can usually count on some degree of ski- or snowboard-able terrain from mid-December to early April. January is the coldest month, with temperatures as low as 8 F (-13 C) and as 'high' as 35 F (2 C). Average annual snowfall can be up to 15ft (4.6m), but that figure jumps to up to 25ft (7.6m) around the ski resorts. Sometimes flakes drop as late as June and as early as September. Summertime isn't any more predictable, and in the midst of a pleasant day, violent thunderstorms can sweep through at the turn of a head. July and August temps can reach 75-80 Fs (23-26 C), but nights are still chilly. However, note that all year-round, when the sun is out its rays are intense; arm your skin with sunscreen before heading outdoors.     Events  Those who know that a half-pipe isn't something you'd smoke might want to check out the heart-racing stunts of the International Snowboard Federation's World Pro Tour at Buttermilk in January. Later in the month, the Gay and Lesbian Film Festival rests your legs but moves your mind. And, if you're not already too sore, get a dose of belly-laughing at the US Comedy Arts Festival at the end of February. There's always something going on in the summer, so you shouldn't be bored, particularly if you stop by the Snowmass Village Rodeo, Wednesday and Saturday nights from late June to late August. Also running June to August, the Aspen Music Festival symphonizes the city with opera, chamber music and orchestral concerts. Always the star of summer, Independence Day is done with flair in Aspen, which celebrates with a parade, fireworks, a bicycle rodeo for children and an air force sky show. Dance Aspen moves through with performances ranging from ballet to modern acts in July and August. Come September, summer starts its wind-down with the Aspen Filmfest.    
north_america_aspen_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  About 70mi (113km) long from its start near Independence Pass to the Colorado River, the Roaring Fork is a body of water with one free-flowing personality. The Ute Indians, early residents of the area, named it 'Thunder River,' and it isn't a stretch to imagine why. In its relatively short distance it changes drastically in elevation - shifting about 7000ft (2134m) total - making for variable, erratic depths and scenery that takes in everything from dramatic canyons to aspen-treed landscapes. It's the rushing artery of Aspen with all manner of activities surrounding it. Scenic whitewater trips are available with local guides; full daytrips generally include lunch. Fishers reel in trout (brown and rainbow) and whitefish - the river is said to have the best winter fishing in the state.  
north_america_atlanta_activities.html:  Activities  Atlanta doesn't offer a lot in the way of sweating it out - aside from just standing still in summer. The city's 15 mile (24km) bike loop and Piedmont Park's bike paths make for great cycling. If you want to feel the earth under your feet, you can hike through Fernbank Forest, a few miles northeast of downtown.  There are guided walks at the Atlanta History Center and the Atlanta Botanical Garden. You can do a little bit of everything at Stone Mountain Park - ice skate, boat, hike and chase the ducks.  
north_america_atlanta_attractions.html:  Attractions  Since being rebuilt after the Civil War, downtown Atlanta has often been transformed by waves of development and is now a thoroughly modern metropolis. Among the few remaining traces of the 19th century city left is Underground Atlanta, a multileveled mall that is, as the name indicates, below ground level - the result of several levels of train trestles having been built over the streets below. One of the city's finest historic buildings is the gilt-domed 1889 State Capitol, which has tours and exhibits.  To the west is the National Historic District of Fairlie-Poplar, which was the city's commercial center 100 years ago. Its 20-odd blocks are lined with brick and tile buildings constructed between the 1880s and WWI. News junkies will want to head a couple of blocks northwest to CNN Center, headquarters of the worldwide cable TV news service; tours take in broadcasting studios and backrooms full of technicians, writers and researchers.  
north_america_atlanta_facts.html:  When to Go  Atlanta's weather is mild for much of the year, though July and August tend to be steamy and hot and the area does get snow in December and January. Spring and fall are the best times to visit weather-wise. Bear in mind that thousands of students arrive in late August and early September to attend the area's many colleges - which is good if you're looking to party but bad if you need a hotel room.     Events  The new year kicks off with the Peachbowl Parade down Peachtree St, and a gridiron gruntfest called - you guessed it - the Peach Bowl. Favorite son and Nobel laureate Martin Luther King Jr is feted during King Week, culminating on the anniversary of his birth, 15 January.  Those whose hearts belong to Dixie should visit during the last week of March, when Atlanta's prewar and Confederate days are fondly recalled during the Antebellum Jubilee. You can vibrate to the many rhythms of the Midtown Music Fest, held in mid-May. There's nothing like hearing 'To be or not to be' delivered with a southern drawl, and you can do just that during June's Georgia Shakespeare Festival.  In mid-September, it's back to Stone Mountain for the Yellow Daisy Festival, where the daisy-related arts and crafts will have you singing along with 2001's HAL. Atlanta's yuletide revels include the Festival of Trees, where you can bid on a fully decorated tree.   Public Holidays: 1 January - New Year's Day 19 January - Robert E Lee's Birthday Third Monday in January - Martin Luther King Jr Day Third Monday in February - Presidents' Day Late March or April - Easter 26 April - Confederate Memorial Day Last Monday in May - Memorial Day 4 July - Independence Day First Monday in August - Colorado Day First Monday in September - Labor Day Second Monday in October - Columbus Day 11 November - Veterans' Day Fourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving 25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to AtlantaTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_atlanta_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Little Five Points is as close to bohemia as Atlanta gets. The neighborhood has come a long way since the turn of the century, when it was the commercial district of an elite bedroom community called Inman Park. After a post-WWI decline, Inman Park found itself in the hands of ambitious fixer-uppers and on the National Register of Historic Places. Five Points, having gone through a similar slide, revived under the patronage of the youthful new clientele that bought up Inman Park's crumbling houses. Somewhere along the line, Little Five Points took a slightly beatnik/hippy turn and has been on that road ever since. The center of the neighborhood is at the intersection of Moreland and Euclid Aves, locale of small shops, live theaters, cinemas, bookstores, cafes and restaurants. The nearby Museum of the Jimmy Carter Library features exhibits on Carter's four years (1977-1981) as President of the US.  
north_america_atlantic_city_activities.html:  Activities  Atlantic City is not the place to visit if you're into the outdoors. The most burning of calories you'll achive will be getting out of bed and slouching in front of a slot machine. The city's rules and regulations conspire to keep it this way. While the Boardwalk is a good spot, in theory, for cycling, bikes are only allowed between the hours of 6-10 am.  If you want some exercise, you're better off leaving Atlantic City and heading for the peaceful Pine Barrens, where there's no shortage of hiking in the huge pine forest. In Egg Harbor, you can rent equipment to canoe and kayak through the Pines. Wildwood's coast has some decent beaches from which people parasail. Whalewatching trips run from North Wildwood and Cape May throughout the summer.  
north_america_atlantic_city_attractions.html:  Attractions  Atlantic City's famous Boardwalk was the first in the world, built in 1870 by local business owners who wanted to cut down on sand being tracked into hotel lobbies by guests returning from the beach. Alexander Boardman came up with the idea, and the long stretch of planks became known as Boardman's Walk - later shortened to 'Boardwalk.' The Boardwalk is still the lifeline of the city and the path that leads to all doors. It runs along an 8mi (13km) stretch of beach where visitors sunbathe, picnic and swim.  If you're interested in losing some serious currency or just want to check out the grand gambling halls, there are several along the the Boardwalk. Showboat Casino Hotel has a riverboat-themed interior, while the superextravagant Trump Taj Mahal boasts nine gigantic limestone elephants to greet its guests. It is easily recognised by the 70 bright minarets crowning the rooftops. If you're new to the roulette wheel, try Claridge Casino Hotel, which has low-stakes tables and is just one block west of the Boardwalk.  
north_america_atlantic_city_facts.html:  When to Go  Atlantic City's best temperatures occur from June through August, but this is the height of the tourist season so expect crowds. Late June's Beach Fest is a good excuse to visit if you enjoy sharing barbecue, beer and beach balls with 100,000 other people. The crown jewel of commercial crassness is reached during the Miss America Pageant, held in September.     Events  America's cheesiest professional ogling event, the Miss America Pageant, brings nubile contestants from all 50 states to Atlantic City each September to battle it out in bikini and 'talent' contests. The festivities last a full week, with 3 nights of preliminary competition taking place before Saturday night's tearjerking televised finale. The beauties also take part in the Miss America Parade, which involves cruising along the Boardwalk hyperactively waving from the back seat of a convertible. Late June's Beach Fest brings 100,000 people together for barbecue and beer. In August there's the Atlantic City Film and Music Festival showcases all the slickest celluloid hitting the screens for Christmas. If you're keen to stretch your legs 14 October marks the Atlantic City Marathon, an active way to take in the seaside.   Public Holidays: 1 January - New Year's Day Third Monday in January - Martin Luther King Jr Day Third Monday in February - Presidents' Day Late March or April - Easter Last Monday in May - Memorial Day 4 July - Independence Day First Monday in September - Labor Day Second Monday in October - Columbus Day 11 November - Veterans' Day Fourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving 25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to Atlantic CityTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_atlantic_city_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Known as a middle-class resort town, Asbury Park was famous in the 1920s for it's all-too-cute 'Baby Parade', a collection costumed kids still seen in cheesier greeting cards today. The town shot to fame in the 1970s, when the young Bruce Springsteen, made a name for himself at the Stone Pony Club. The boss headlined a homecoming concert recently in the decrepit convention hall, but the town itself has past its glory days as a beach resort.  The town is about 60mi (97km) north of Atlantic City, best reached from the Garden State Parkway and accessible from Atlantic City by train and bus.  
north_america_austin_activities.html:  Activities  When the weather heats up, tubing, kayaking and canoeing are weekend mainstays at the lakes just west of Austin and along the waterways of Barton Springs Greenbelt, south of downtown. There are access points at several spots along Barton Creek. Likewise, the natural swimming pool at Barton Springs is hugely popular for summer dunks - the pool maintains a constant 68 F (21 C) year round. Birdwatching is another greenbelt attraction, and sightings of green and little blue herons, belted kingfishers and wood ducks are common. The nature trails of Zilker Nature Preserve are popular for hiking and walking.   Bicycling is another favorite pastime of Austinites, and there are some 30 miles (50km) worth of trails within the city limits, another stretch within the greenbelt and a 'veloway' through nearby Slaughter Creek Metropolitan Park. Rock climbing in the Hill Country is also big, and there's even one of those see-and-be-seen scene climbing gyms downtown.  
north_america_austin_attractions.html:  Attractions  Smack in the middle of downtown, the Capitol Complex is made up of over two dozen state government offices. Like a pink mirage in the city center's sea of green, the Texas State Capitol (1888) is certainly Austin's most distinctive landmark. Constructed of sunset-colored Texas limestone, the capitol is topped with a statue of the Goddess of Liberty and (as its proud staffers are only too happy to tell you) ranks as the seventh largest government building in the world. Someone actually went to the trouble to measure the building from the basement floor to the top of the Liberty statue, and at 311ft (93m), it's taller than the national capitol in Washington, DC.  The capitol's rotunda features terrazzo seals of the six nations whose flag has flown over Texas. Inside the building you'll find the standard assortment of the state's top brass, including the chambers of the Senate and House of Representatives and the offices of the governor.  The lovely Greek Revival Governor's Mansion (1856) is a few blocks west. Under Texas law, the governor is required to reside here when in Austin. It's open for tours daily except during state holidays, official functions and whenever the governor's feeling private.  
north_america_austin_facts.html:  When to Go  The storms of 1998 notwithstanding, Austin has a semitropical climate that's often downright pleasant. May through September is the rainiest, most humid period, but even August's heat spells are less severe than elsewhere in the state. As far as weather's concerned, fall and spring are the best times to visit. Winter (December to February) temperatures usually drop no lower than a brisk 38 F (4 C), while the most sweltering summer days top out at about 98 F (37 C).  Things can get crowded during the big music festivals, especially during South by Southwest in March. Otherwise, Austin doesn't have a definite tourist season. The bats come to roost between March and early November, if that counts.     Events  Austin hosts a helluva lot of hoedowns every year, most of them centered around one thing: music. Kicking off the season is South by Southwest (SXSW), an internationally renowned music, film and multimedia conference that packs the city every March. Many shows and events are free, but you'd better book early if you want to see the big ones. Also in March is local good ol' boy Jerry Jeff Walker's Birthday Celebration, featuring three days of dancing and rodeos and a Saturday night serenade by JJ himself. Soon after, the Old Settlers Bluegrass & Acoustic Music Festival and the Downtown Conjunto Festival get the city's toes tapping again to more traditional beats. Two celebrations in June - the Green Mesquite Rhythm & Blues Festival and the Clarksville/West End Jazz & Arts Festival - honor the talent of local musicians.  Apart from the mostly-music festivals, Austin celebrates itself and its culture with several major events both whimsical and sincere. Spamarama in late March honors the oft-maligned tinned meat, while the real stuff takes the spotlight in the Austin-Travis County Livestock Show & Rodeo - the BBQ competition is not to be missed. In mid-May, Cinco de Mayo is celebrated con mucho gusto at Fiesta Gardens, while Fiesta Laguna Gloria entwines arts and crafts displays with the trimmings of a Mexican fiesta - look for mariachi musicians and folk dancers at the Laguna Gloria Art Museum toward the end of the month. The 4th of July is celebrated as the Freedom Festival in Austin, with live music, lots of food and a rocking fireworks display in Zilker Park.  Probably the biggest event of the year - aside from SXSW - is Aquafest, held on weekends in late July and early August. Events include water sports exhibitions and tournaments, music and dance festivals, and a parade-by-night at Town Lake's Auditorium Shores. Halloween ushers in a mad block party along 6th St, though the next day's D a de los Muertos celebrations are a whole lot spookier. There's a big-deal Thanksgiving Day football game between UT and Texas A&M, as well as the standard slew of Christmas-season revelries.   Public Holidays: 1 January - New Year's Day Third Monday in January - Martin Luther King Jr Day Third Monday in February - Presidents' Day Late March or April - Easter Last Monday in May - Memorial Day 4 July - Independence Day First Monday in September - Labor Day Second Monday in October - Columbus Day 11 November - Veterans' Day Fourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving 25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to AustinTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_austin_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Just south of downtown, Town Lake is actually a dammed off section of the Colorado River, lined with hiking and biking trails. It's a very nice area - as you'd know if you were staying at the Hostelling International-Austin, whose windows overlook it. Northwest of the city on a bluff over the river, the Mayfield Estate and Nature Preserve is the former home of Texas Secretary of State and railroad commissioner Allison Mayfield. Mayfield settled this idyllic spot at the turn of the century, and for over 50 years he and his wife built up the estate's grounds with lily ponds, a gazebo overlooking the Colorado and a flower garden. The estate is very peaceful and far less crowded than the overlook at Mt Bonnell, the much-heralded highest point in the city.  
north_america_baltimore_activities.html:  Activities  Believe it or not: Maryland's state sport is jousting. The knights in shining armor are long gone, but the modern-day jousters need a fair amount of skill to catch rings of decreasing size with their lances. There's a jousting tournament every August in Cordova, near Easton, on Maryland's eastern shore.  Annapolis, 35mi (56km) south of Baltimore, is the sailing capital of the United States. If you know your way around a sailboat, you can probably find a place aboard someone's boat for the Wednesday evening or weekend races. There are limited sailing opportunities in Baltimore itself, mostly along the lines of a two- or three-hour bay cruise. If you must get on the Baltimore waters under your own steam, there are paddle boat rental outlets on the northern side of Inner Harbor, near the aquarium.   Cyclists can trundle around the country roads north of the city or take advantage of the Baltimore & Annapolis Trail Park, a 13mi (21km) trail that follows the old Baltimore & Annapolis Railroad route from Annapolis to Glen Burnie. Going to a baseball game is particularly enjoyable in Baltimore, though this is more for the enjoyment of the great retro Oriole Park at Camden Yards than for watching the erratic performance of the home team - the Orioles.  
north_america_baltimore_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Inner Harbor is the revitalized heart of Baltimore. It encompasses both the head of the Northwest Branch of the Patapsco River and the land around it. Now a major tourist attraction, it includes a waterfront promenade, museums, tour boats, historic ships, and the innovative National Aquarium. Over 5000 marine animals are housed in the aquarium's two glass pyramids; an elevator takes you to the top and you walk down ramps that spiral around large circular tanks. The Baltimore Maritime Museum is housed in a ship and submarine docked on the western side of the aquarium and includes the USS Torsk, the last submarine to sink a Japanese ship during WWII. On the northern side of the harbor is the World Trade Center, designed by IM Pei to be the world's tallest pentagonal structure. There's a good view of Baltimore from the 27th floor.  
north_america_baltimore_facts.html:  When to Go  Spring and fall are the most temperate and scenic seasons throughout the Capital Region, but travel is eminently possible in other months. The Chesapeake Bay and Atlantic Ocean give the eastern part of Maryland fairly mild winters and humid summers. Rainfall is pretty steady through the year, but you're most likely to be reaching for the umbrellain July and August. Despite the downpours, the city is a lively place in summer with lots of outdoor events which keep buzzing long into the balmy Baltimore evenings.     Events  Baltimore hosts plenty of events, mainly in the summer months. From late April to early May Inner Harbor comes alive with the Baltimore Waterfront Festival. The Center Plaza Concert Series brings jazz, blues, salsa and reggae concerts downtown from May to July. Between late May and September there are free big band, swing, jazz and other bands at the Pier 6 Concert Pavillion. In July Patterson Park, north of Fells Point's Market Square, hosts the Chesapeake Turtle Derby - a series of turtle heats named after prominent Baltimoreans - and the Square sees the Hog Calling Contest, which is just what it sounds like. Artscape, held in July, is a celebration of local theater, music, arts and food in Mount Royal.   Defender's Day Celebration is 12 September, the anniversary of the War of 1812's Battle of Baltimore. Military drills, fireworks, and music all go off at Fort McHenry. In October, Baltimore's working boats sail through the harbor to be blessed.    
north_america_baltimore_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  A national landmark, Annapolis (population 35,000) has one of the largest concentrations of 18th century homes and public buildings in the country. Although the town has been the capital of Maryland since colonial times, no modern office buildings mar the skyline or the narrow brick streets, making this a great town for period dress-up games.  Annapolis Harbor has been home of the US Naval Academy since 1845, and its connecting tidal creeks shelter dozens of marinas where thousands of cruising and racing sailboats tie up. This concentration of recreational sailing vessels, probably the largest fleet in America, has earned Annapolis the title of 'Sailing Capital of the United States'. In response to the onshore appetites of the sailing crowd and the tourists who come to immerse themselves in history and the nautical scene, an extensive collection of restaurants, bars, and inns has grown up around the city's waterfront. Today, Annapolis has a well-deserved reputation as a party town.  Annapolis is 35mi (56km) south of Baltimore and an equal distance east of Washington, DC on the Western Shore of the Chesapeake. Buses run from downtown Baltimore or, if you've got your own wheels, take I-695 to Hwy 2S to Hwy 50W.  
north_america_bermuda_activities.html:  Activities  There are pleasant swimming beaches all around Bermuda, but the best area is South Shore Park, which has nearly a dozen coves linked by coastal trails. Other notable beaches are Elbow Beach near Hamilton and the exotically named John Smith Bay in Paget Parish. Islanders say it's easy to tell the nationality of people splashing in the waves; locals won't swim after September, Americans quit around November and Brits swim year round. Most locals take their first dip on Bermuda Day on 24 May; the more timid wait until the Queen's Birthday in mid-June.  Bermuda's shallow waters, warm currents, numerous shipwrecks and coral reefs make for great diving. Popular wreck dives include the Constellation, which sits in only 30 feet of water and the nearby Montana. The main season is from April through October. There are a number of dive operators and most offer introductory courses for novices. Snorkellers can find interesting underwater terrain just about anywhere the water is calm and the shoreline rocky. Favored spots include Church Bay in Southampton Parish and Tobacco Bay north of the Town of St George.   Windsurfing tends to be good in the Great Sound but the best locations change with the wind. Sailing is popular in the protected waters of the Great Sound and Little Sound. You can rent sailboats, take lessons or charter a skippered yacht. Chartering a fishing boat will enable you to chance your rod and reel skills against game fish such as marlin, tuna and barracuda. In the interests of conservation, sports fishers are encouraged to release their catch and, thankfully, most do.  The longest walking trails on the islands are along the now covered tracks that once carried Bermuda's narrow-gauge railway. Unfortunately the Bermuda Railway Trail is not a single continuous walkway, but it does add up to some 21 miles of trails. The government produces a nifty guide that details the historic and natural points of interest in its seven sections. Other good areas for walking are Spittal Pond Nature Reserve and South Shore Park.  If you need more exercise, there are numerous tennis courts and a whopping eight golf courses, which must be some kind of record on only 21 sq miles of land.  
north_america_bermuda_attractions.html:  Attractions  Hamilton is the hub of Bermuda, serving as both its capital and commercial center. While it's not a large city (population 15,000), it has a surprising amount of hustle and bustle - at least compared to the rest of the island. Locals refer to it simply as 'town' - 'going to town' means, without a doubt, going to Hamilton.  The city's pulse is located in Front St, a harborfront road lined with turn-of-the-century Victorian buildings in bright pastel lemon, lime, apricot and sky blue. Many buildings have overhanging verandahs, where you can linger over lunch and watch the boats ferry across the harbour.  Attractions include the Bermuda Cathedral, a weighty neo-Gothic building that is one of the city's dominant landmarks; the Bermuda Historical Society Museum, which contains models of the ill-fated Sea Venture; and the Bermuda National Gallery, containing works by Thomas Gainsborough, Joshua Reynolds and Winslow Homer.   Fort Hamilton is a substantial hilltop fort with a bird's-eye view of Hamilton Harbour. It's one of a series of fortifications erected in the mid-19th century during a period of rising tensions between Britain and the USA. The ramparts are mounted with 10-inch rifled muzzleloader guns, capable of firing 400-pound cannonballs through iron-hulled vessels. These devastating weapons were, fortunately, never required.  Hamilton is the island's transport hub, so you can expect to visit the city frequently if you are using the public bus system. It has the best selection of shops, cafes, restaurants and pubs on the island.  
north_america_bermuda_environment.html:  Environment  Bermuda is a subtropical island in the Atlantic Ocean, 570 nautical miles off the coast of North Carolina. It's more than 1000 miles north of the Caribbean, where most people mistakenly assume it to be. It comprises 150 small islands, which collectively total just 21 sq miles. The eight largest islands are connected by causeways and bridges to form a continuous fishhook-shaped land mass that stretches 22 miles in length and averages less than a mile across. Bermudians tend to treat these eight islands, which comprise 95% of the country's land mass, as a single geographic entity and commonly refer to it as simply 'the island.' Only about a dozen of the other islands are inhabited.  All the islands are volcanic in origin, the emerged tips of a volcanic mountain mass that rose from the sea floor several million years ago. They are surrounded by fringing coral reefs and have hilly interiors, though the highest peak is a mere 259 feet high. Bermuda's size, relatively high-density population and half million visitors per year inevitably cause stress on the environment. Overfishing, for example, has devastated the island's commercial fishing possibilities. Fortunately increased environmental awareness and legislation have succeeded in protecting and re-introducing some species - notably turtles.  Bermuda enjoys a mild, agreeable climate because of the warming effects of the Gulf Stream. The average annual high temperature is 75 F (23 C), while the average annual low is 68 F (20 C). Humidity is high year round and rainfall is evenly distributed, with no identifiable wet season.  This frost-free climate means the island is abloom with colourful flowers like bougainvillea, hibiscus and oleander. Bermuda has no native land mammals; the endemic Bermuda rock lizard was the only nonmarine land animal on Bermuda prior to human contact. The island now has a variety of introduced lizards, a couple of types of whistling tree frog, and a giant toad mostly seen squashed on the road - hence its nickname 'road toad.'  Bermuda has the northernmost corals found in the Atlantic, and they attract a variety of colorful tropical creatures such as angelfish, triggerfish and the clown wrasse. Unfortunately, jellyfish-like Portuguese man-of-wars are also found in Bermuda's waters between March and July; a brush with one of these guys and you'll know the meaning of pain.  
north_america_bermuda_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: No visas are required for citizens of the USA, Canada, the UK, Australia, New Zealand, Israel and Western European countries. Visas are required by citizens of the former Soviet Union, most countries in North Africa and the Middle East, China, Sri Lanka and some former Soviet Bloc countries in Eastern Europe.Health risks: Portuguese man-of-warsTime: GMT/UTC minus four hours (one hour ahead of Eastern Standard Time)Electricity: 110V, 60Hz using a US flat, two-pronged plugWeights & measures: ImperialTourism: 550,000 visitors per year When to Go  Bermuda can be visited year round, but the busiest tourist season is from April through October when the weather is warmest and water temperatures comfortable for swimming and diving. It's also the liveliest time on the island, with plenty of events and entertainment options to keep visitors amused.  The winter season is a bit too cool for swimming, and many tourist-related agencies, like diving companies and boat tours, suspend operations for part of the season. January is the quietest month, so if you're more interested in tennis and golf or seeing the island when it's free of large numbers of tourists, this is the time to come.  The advantage of visiting during the cooler months is that accommodation prices can be up to 40% lower and you can escape the colder winter of more northern climes. So-called 'snow birds' arriving from the US East Coast at the end of the 19th century originally made the winter months the high season in Bermuda. The best conditions for windsurfing also tend to be in winter.     Events  Bermuda has an inordinate number of golf tournaments and sedate events like bowls tournaments and gardening shows aimed primarily at older people but that doesn't mean it lacks oomph.  Gombey dancers strut their stuff on New Year's Day, and the Bermuda Festival is a six-week performing arts spectacular running from mid-January through February. The Bermuda Cat Fanciers Association Championship Cat Show in mid-March sounds like a hoot but is slightly less prestigious than the Newport-Bermuda Race, one of the world's major ocean yacht races held in late June during even-numbered years.   SOCA is a Caribbean music festival that has the Royal Naval Dockyards jumping in late July or early August, while the Bermuda Reggae Sunsplash continues the skanking in mid-August. You can march to a different drummer during the three-day Bermuda Tattoo in early November, which culminates with a grand finale of fireworks.    
north_america_bermuda_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This bird sanctuary, located south-east of Bermuda's airport, is being prepared for the reintroduction of the Bermuda petrel, or cahow, one of the most endangered birds in the world. Predators are being eliminated from the island in a bid to restore the island's precontact ecology. Not surprisingly, human access to the island is restricted, though the Bermuda Biological Station and the Bermuda Audubon Society occasionally bring groups to visit.  
north_america_boston_activities.html:  Activities  Boston is a walker's town, and there are several historical and nature walks in the area. The 2.5 mile (4km) Freedom Trail links over a dozen historic sites, winding through downtown and the North End and ending up at the USS Constitution in Charlestown. Guides are on hand to lead nature walks along the 'Emerald Necklace' of city parks that links the Esplanade and the Back Bay Fens. The Black Heritage Trail focuses on 19th century sites on Beacon Hill. For those whose feet follow their noses toward the sea air, the Harbor Walk takes in a mix of ancient granite warehouses and postmodern hotels along Boston's fabled waterfront.   Bicycling on the Charles River Esplanade is a cardio-intensive way to see the skyline. The nicest routes are through the 'Emerald Necklace' of city parks linking the Esplanade and the Back Bay Fens with the Arnold Arboretum, several miles southwest of downtown. The 7 mile (11km) Shining Sea Bike Path runs between Falmouth and Woods Hole on the southern shore of Cape Cod and offers great views of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket.  The best beaches are along Cape Cod. Old Silver Beach is Falmouth's most popular strand, but if you want to escape the crowds you can take a two-hour water taxi ride from Provincetown out to Long Point Beach. Coast Guard Beach, on the Atlantic shore near Eastham, is a long strand backed by tall, undulating dune grasses. The South Cape Beach State Park in East Falmouth has nature trails and a long sandy beach.  Whether you want to row your skiff gently down the stream or holler 'stroke!' through a megaphone, Boston offers great boating. You can take canoes, kayaks, sailboats, windsurfers and racing shells out on the Charles River or Boston Harbor. Canoes are available on Cape Cod for paddling around the Waquoit Bay National Estuary.   Birders can strap on their binocs and head for the Audubon Bird Sanctuary on Marblehead Neck or several nature reserves on Cape Cod, including the National Wildlife Refuge on Monomoy Island at the southeastern corner of the Cape, and the Audubon Wellfleet Bay Wildlife Sanctuary. Whale watchers are likely to be rewarded by a trip to Stellwagen Bank, 25 miles (40km) east of Boston. There's also a whale watching cruise that departs from Hyannis on southern Cape Cod.  
north_america_boston_attractions.html:  Attractions  Narrow, winding streets and the smell of coffee in the air probably mean you're in the North End, Boston's oldest neighborhood and home to much of the city's Italian population. The heart of the Italian section is Salem Street, crammed with bakeries, cafes, delicatessens and candy shops. Among the remnants of Boston's early days are Copp's Hill Burying Ground, serving stiffs since 1660 (look for headstones pockmarked by Revolutionary War musket balls); the tiny clapboard Paul Revere House, built in 1680 and the oldest house in Boston; and the 1723 Old North Church, where two lanterns were hung in the steeple to signal the Brits' arrival by sea, which was followed swiftly by the first battle of the Revolutionary War.  
north_america_boston_facts.html:  When to Go  Given the extremes of New England weather - hot, humid summers (June to August) and chilly, wet winters (November to February) - the best times to visit Boston are late spring (April to May) and early fall (September to October). Bear in mind that thousands of college students start their school year in late August and early September - and there are over 50 college campuses in the greater Boston area.     Events  Kick off the Chinese New Year in February with firecrackers and scampering dragons. If you've ever had a taste for green beer you can drink your fill on St Patrick's Day in mid-March. South Boston holds the city's biggest St Paddy's parade, though Cambridge has made a point of allowing the gay and lesbian groups that SoBo excludes to march. The city streets resound with the muffled slaps of thousands of racing shoes during April's Boston Marathon.   Harborfest is Boston's week-long version of the Fourth of July, with a free Boston Pops concert on the Esplanade and fireworks over the harbor. Save some room for July's Chowderfest, when you can sample dozens of fish and clam chowders from some of Boston's best restaurants. Head over to Cambridge for the Christmas Revels, which features music, dancing and theater from a different folkloric tradition each December.    
north_america_boston_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Lexington is a repository of the kind of American History that comes in capital letters and reverent tones. On 17 April 1775, Paul Revere and two companions rode from Boston to Lexington in the predawn hours to warn the colonial militia - the Minutemen - of the impending approach of British troops. What followed was the first battle of the Revolutionary War, which took place on Lexington Green (now called Battle Green). This leafy, placid town has a number of historic houses and taverns, such as the 1695 Munroe Tavern and the 1689 Hancock-Clarke House, where John Hancock and Samuel Adams hid out from the Red Coats. Lexington is about 18 miles (29km) northwest of downtown Boston and is accessible by a combination of the subway and public bus.  
north_america_branson_activities.html:  Activities  The Branson/Lakes Area is home to three scenic lakes, offering water enthusiasts opportunities for swimming, boating, sailing, scuba diving, para-sailing and fishing. Nestled in the scenic Ozark Mountains, access to these lakes is easy - Lake Taneycomo flows through the city itself, Table Rock Lake is a ten-minute drive from the central district, while Bull Shoals Lake, about a 30-minute drive away, is a little more secluded. The nearby Ozark Mountains, State Parks and National Forests are prefect for hiking, biking, kayaking, spelunking and camping, and there are several tour companies in town that specialize in guided forest trips. For the golfing enthusiast there are over eight courses in the Branson area. Branson ranks in the top 10 in the nation for the number of factory outlet stores so it's no surprise that shopping is consistently ranked as one of the most popular activities by visitors.  
north_america_branson_attractions.html:  Attractions  For most visitors, this is what modern day Branson is all about. The 7mi (11km) stretch of Missouri State Hwy 76 is the economic backbone of the city - with over 50 theaters, 70 plus hotels and motels, and over 60 restaurants. The neon-lit strip is also home to shopping outlets, amusement parks, wax museums and other suitably cheesy tourist attractions. Look out for the 47ft (14m) long neck of the world's largest banjo jutting through the window of the Grand Country Market - it's the city's very own Eiffel Tower. Traveling treasure hunters, mostly retirees and families, jam all four lanes of the road from April to September.  When tourism to the area began increasing in the 1960s, 'The Strip' only had a few scattered shops and five music shows. However the cancellation of the Missouri Pacific's White River Line meant that most visitors were forced to arrive by motor vehicle. This in turn led to roadwork and new expanded highways and bypass routes. In 1957 the first music show opened, by the 1980s show numbers had increased to sixteen and today they now exceed 80. National Country stars, like Roy Clark, were the first to realize the potential of the area, and Roy gave his name to a theater. Now the names on the theaters read like a musical who's who and include Wayne Newton, the Osmonds, Charlie Pride, Kenny Rogers, Glen Campbell, Mel Tillis and Andy Williams amongst many others. With 61,714 theater seats, the city boasts more seats than New York City's Broadway district - now that's entertainment.  
north_america_branson_facts.html:  When to Go  Branson is ostensibly a year-round destination with most of the entertainment offerings open mid-March through to the end of December. Tourist season officially begins in April and during peak season, June and July and between Labor Day and Christmas, the town's population swells to over 150,000. Special events throughout the year also see an influx of visitors to the area.     Events  Branson Fest (March/April), Ozark Mountain Christmas (Nov-Dec) and the Branson Area Festival of Lights (Nov-Dec) offer visitors a special reason to visit.    
north_america_branson_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If you want a tour with a difference, and don't mind the possibility of getting a little wet, then this may just be what you were after - riding in a brightly decorated, amphibious military landing vehicle. The tour begins in Branson in an open-air WWII vintage amphibious vehicle and guides you around the town and then straight onto neighboring Lake Taneycomo. On route you'll pass sights like Tablerock Lake Dam, the old stern-wheeled riverboat, the Branson Belle and Shepherd of the Hills Fish Hatchery. For over 25 years, the Coast Guard-licensed captains have guided visitors on these 80-minute fun and fact-filled trips around the area. So when in Branson do as the brochure says - grab your "Wacky Quacker", hop on a Duck and take to the water. Ride the Ducks are at 2320 West Hwy 76.  
north_america_cabo_san_lucas_activities.html:  Activities  There's no doubt that Cabo is all about the great outdoors. Even if you're just walking along the beaches to witness the rock formations at Land's End you'll still find your pulse racing. But take a big breath in and duck under the waves, because the snorkeling and diving here are excellent. Beginners can test the waters at Roca Pelicano (Pelican Rock), where there's plenty of tropical fish schooling, and Land's End, where you can get cosy with sea lions. More advanced divers jump in the deep end at Sands Falls, which was once the subject of a Jacques Cousteau documentary, or at Neptune's Finger, known for its amazing canyon wall dive.  For some folk, the only way to really experience sea creatures is on the end of a line, which is why Cabo has a reputation as the marlin fishing destination. There are blue and striped species of the famed game fish, but a few other sea creatures - including tuna, wahoo, sharks, roosterfish and dorado - will be just as keen to tug your line. If you haven't got your own boat and rig, plenty of tour companies offer 8-hour tours, or you can hire a panga (skiff) to net the smaller fish. The marlin numbers are protected by the Cape region's catch and release policy - you have to throw back every fish caught after the first. You won't have fought the fish for nothing, however, as the Billfish Foundation awards Release Certificates to anglers.  From January to March, the gray whale migration makes whale watching possible even from the shore, though there are tour operators who can get you closer to the action. There's also horseback riding and cycling around the area, including a breathtaking horseback ride up to Faro Viejo to watch the sunset.  
north_america_cabo_san_lucas_attractions.html:  Attractions  The most popular of the town's beaches is definitely Medano - its calm waters are perfect for swimming, though you might have to dodge the odd jet ski. The souvenir vendors have worked out that this is the best beach to hawk Day of the Dead dolls, but there are plenty of bars and restaurants in which to give them the slip. This area is definitely the party place in town, so if you're after peace and tranquility make for the quieter stretch of sand beyond the Club Cascadas.  If you're looking for adventure sports action this should be your first stop: you can carve up the coast on a windsurfer, jump into a sea kayak, strap yourself into a parasail for an adrenalin-racing eyeful of the coastline or try the heart-stopping, but picturesque, beachside bungee jumping. And of course there's always terrorizing swimmers with a jet ski. All the water sports toys are available for hire at various places along the beach.  
north_america_cabo_san_lucas_facts.html:  When to Go  Anytime is a good time to visit Baja, right? Well, almost. In the hottest months of May to October, Cabo San Lucas is also, unfortunately, the wettest, with the occasional chubascos (tropical storm) meteorologically shaking things up. The summer highs of over 85 F (30 C) can get a little uncomfortable, too. Dodging the crowds is a real issue here, with some US university students making it this far south for wild spring breaks during March and April. Hotels and resorts fill up quickly around big US holidays too - like Memorial Day in May or even Independence Day in July - so book ahead. Savvy visitors usually avoid the tourist crowds by coming down in winter when the temperature drops as 'low' as 60 F (16 C) - hardly winter woolies weather. If you're coming for the fishing, it's best during hurricane season when rough waters stir up the big fish.     Events  There's no shortage of celebrations in Cabo San Lucas, especially if you're into sportfishing. The big angling event is Bisbee's Black & Blue Marlin Jackpot Tournament, which kicks off in late October. The lead up to this huge event is  Gold Cup Sports-fishing Tournament, usually held the week before and a big event in its own right. If you're still desperate to throw a line in, late November sees the Los Cabos Billfish Tournament snapping rods and tightening lines around the Cape Region. If you like your fun a little less fishy, the locals come out for parades and parties honoring the town's patron saint at the Festival of San Lucas. In the nearby town of Todos Santos, the two-day Festivale de Artes is a showcase for the work of local artists.  Mexico brings in A o Nuevo (New Year's Day) with plenty of partying, though Mexican children have to wait until D a de los Reyes Magos (Three Kings' Day) on 6 January to get their Christmas gifts. February is full of national holidays: D a de la Constituc on (Constitution Day) on 5 February acknowledges drafting of the national founding document and on 24 February the country gives a nod to its standard with D a de la Bandera (Day of the Flag). On 21 March Mexico's much-beloved Zapotec president is honored with his own day off for the anniversary of his birth on D a de Nacimiento de Benito Ju rez. May is another double holiday month with D a del Obrero (Labor Day) on 1 May and the anniversary of Mexico's victory over the French on Cinco de Mayo (Fifth of May). On 16 September D a de la Independencia commemorates the beginning of Mexico's war of independence, which saw the forging of a nation from a Spanish colony. D a de la Raza (12 October) celebrates the discovery of the New World by Colombus, and the D a de la Revoluci n (20 November) celebrates the Mexican Revolution of 1810. The year is rounded off with D a de Navidad (Christmas Day), which is celebrated with a traditional feast after midnight mass.    
north_america_cabo_san_lucas_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Ever wondered where the Eagles got their inspiration for 'Hotel California'? Or where punk veteran Iggy Pop hangs his leather trousers during cold winters? This small town holds all the answers, as well as some rarely visited beaches and a prolific artists' colony. The  Hotel California itself has a dubious claim to the song, but with handy access to the beach who cares. Mr Pop, however, is not so accessible, keeping his home a well-guarded secret.  On the outskirts of town there are ruins of several old mills, including Molino El Progreso and Molino Cerro Verde, which are all evidence that the town was once a thriving rural center. The colorful murals at Centro Cultural Todosante o reflect the nationalistic and revolutionary aesthetics of the 1930s, featuring dogmatic slogans like 'Vigor in mind and muscle' and 'Emancipation of the rural spirit'. For two days in late January, the region's many artists open up their studios for visitors to mark the Festival de Artes.  The easiest way to get to Todos Santos is to take the 1.5-hour bus ride from the stop at the corner of Her ico Colegio Militar and Zaragoza in Cabo San Lucas.  
north_america_canada_activities.html:  Activities  Canada's greatest attribute is its natural environment - it would be simpler to list the activities that aren't available in Canada than those that are. Pursuits on the available list should begin with hiking. In Ontario, Killarney Park has a long-distance trail around the tops of its rounded mountains. Other impressively vertical regions include Gaspesie Park and Mont Tremblant Park in Quebec, Gros Morne National Park in Newfoundland, and Cape Breton National Park in Nova Scotia. More hardcore multi-day hikes can be had in Pukaskwa National Park on Lake Superior and on the partially completed coast-to-coast Trans Canada marathon trail (can you spare 750 days?). Many parks provide outfitters for canoeing, kayaking and white-water rafting. Some of the best paddling can be found at Nova Scotia's Kejiumkujik National Park.  For beach activities, surf's up on the east coast at Ingonish Beach in Nova Scotia and in the warmer waters of Melmerby and Caribou beaches near New Glasgow. Skiers are spoilt for choice, with good cross-country skiing found all across the land. The main alpine ski centres are in Ontario, Quebec, Alberta and around Whistler in British Columbia. There's also rock climbing; Collingwood and Thunder Bay in Ontario, Banff and Jasper in Alberta, and Squamish in BC are all good places to try. Fishing is abundant and popular, even in winter; you'll need a license. Some of the most popular cycling areas are the hilly Gaspe Peninsula in Quebec and the Atlantic Provinces, excluding Newfoundland. In Ontario try the Bruce Peninsula and the Thousand Islands Parkway. There's also good cycling in the Rocky Mountains (especially off-road mountain biking) and throughout British Columbia.  The ecotourism movement has a long history in Canada, and unlike most countries, the costs involved are reasonable. One of the best trips is to the Magdalen Islands of Quebec, where baby seals await your cooing adoration. There are also many trips specializing in the culture of Native people.  
north_america_canada_attractions.html:  Attractions  Canada's capital sprawls along the southern bank of the Ottawa River, on the eastern tip of Ontario. As you'd expect, it's a government town, dominated physically and spiritually by the neo-Gothic Parliament Buildings. You'll hear a fair amount of French spoken here, as federal government workers are required to be bilingual. There's not a heap of exciting things to do in Ottawa - other than marvel at being in a national capital - but the air's clean, the streets are wide, there are lots of public parks and the people seem happy and healthy as they jog or cycle their way to work. The city has the usual plethora of impressive buildings common to capital cities: the War Museum (with a life-sized replica of a WWI trench), the Royal Mint, various grand old homes inhabited by ministers of state and a swag of museums to do justice to the country's icons: nature, aviation, science and technology, skiing and agriculture. Ottawa is also home to Canada's premier art collection, the National Gallery, displaying an enormous array of North American and European works. In summer the city is dotted with the familiar red coats of the Royal Canadian Mounties.  Ottawa's downtown district is divided into eastern and western portions by the Rideau Canal. The eastern section has a very useful pocket of central guesthouses, most of them with heritage details of some sort. Motels are clustered along Rideau St in the east, and along Carling Ave on the western side of town. Byward Market, east of the canal, has a stack of cheap eateries, and western downtown is the place to go for more upmarket eating.  
north_america_canada_environment.html:  Environment  Situated north of the USA, between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, Canada is the world's second largest country (Russia takes the guernsey). It extends some 7700km (4775mi) east to west and 4600km (2850mi) north to south. Nearly 90% of Canadians huddle along the 6379km (3955mi) southern border with the USA. Though much of the land is lake and river-filled forest, there are mountains, plains and even a small desert. The Great Plains, or prairies, cover Manitoba, Saskatchewan and parts of Alberta. These former grasslands are now responsible for Canada's abundant wheat crop. Western Canada is known for its Rocky Mountains, while the east has the country's major cities and also its most visited geographic feature, Niagara Falls. The Canadian Shield, an ancient, rocky and glacially sanded region, formed more than 2.5 billion years ago, covers most of the north of the country. The Arctic region, in the far north, is where you'll find frozen tundra merging into islands that are ice-bound for most of the year.  Canada has an incredible mix of native flora and fauna. It comprises eight vegetation zones, most of which are dominated by forest. Some of the common tree species include white and black spruce, balsam and Douglas fir, western red cedar, white pine and the sugar maple, one of Canada's best-known symbols - the maple leaf appears on the country's flag. Endemic animals include the grizzly, black, brown and polar bears, beaver, buffalo, wolf, coyote, lynx, cougar, deer, caribou, elk and moose. There are also 500 species of birds, such as the great blue heron, Canada geese and many varieties of duck. Moves are afoot to ensure protection for endangered species like the beluga whale, burrowing owl whooping crane and eastern wolf. Canada has 39 national parks, 145 parks-administered national historic sites and 13 areas of such natural significance that they are on the UN World Heritage list.  Canada has four distinct seasons, although their arrival times vary across the country. The single most significant factor in climate is latitude. As a rule of thumb, it gets colder the further north you go, so it's no accident that the warmest areas in the south are also the most populated. The western and eastern coasts are both very wet, though much of the rain falls during winter. In Saskatchewan, Manitoba and eastern Alberta the prairies are fairly dry all year. Canadian winters are long and hard: in more than two-thirds of the country, the average January temperature is a shivering -18 C (-0.4 F). July and August are the warmest months, when temperatures in the south are usually in the upper-20 Cs (low-80 Fs).  
north_america_canada_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most western visitors don't need a visa to visit Canada. Travelers from South Africa, China, North Korea, Taiwan, Eastern European and developing countries do require them. Entry stamps for visits of up to six months are free.Health risks: Giardia, Rabies and Lyme Disease (in wooded regions)Time: There are six time zones ranging from Newfoundland Standard Time in the East (GMT/UTC -3.5) to Pacific Standard Time in the West (GMT/UTC -8). During Daylight Saving Time (Apr-Oct), the range is -2.5 to -7)Electricity: 110/120V 60HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 50 million visitors (approx) per year, 90% of whom are US citizens When to Go  Spring, summer and autumn are all ideal for touring, though if you want to ski you'll naturally have to come in winter or early spring. For campers and those who want to visit the far north, the summer months of July and August are best. Summer is also when many of the country's festivals take place. Note that the peak tourist season is between mid-June and mid-September. Although spring and autumn have fewer crowds, lower prices and a more relaxed pace than the summer months, some visitor-oriented facilities and attractions may be closed during these shoulder seasons.     Events  The Quebec City Winter Carnival, which takes place during the last two weeks of February, features parades, ice sculptures, a snow slide, dances and music. Ottawa's three-week Winterlude fetes all things snowy in February. The Montreal Jazz Festival at the end of June and the Ottawa International Jazz Festival in July both attract international and local players. Two major events in Toronto held in June are Caribana, a cultural exchange offering ethnic music, dance and food, and the Gay Pride Day Parade through the downtown area. In September, there's the Toronto International Film Festival. Calgary hosts the popular Calgary Stampede in July, the highlight of which is the chuck wagon race and rodeo. In the west, Victoria celebrates the First Peoples' Festival in August with traditional craftwork, dancing and war-canoe rides.   Public holidays January 1 - New Year's Day 3rd Monday in February - Family Day (Alberta) Monday nearest March 17 - St Patrick's Day (Newfoundland) March/April - Good Friday & Easter Monday Monday nearest April 23 - St George's Day (Newfoundland) Monday before May 24 - Victoria Day (except in the Atlantic Provinces) June 24 - F te Nationale (Quebec) Monday nearest June 24 - Discovery Day (Newfoundland) Monday nearest July 13 - Orangeman's Day (Newfoundland) 1st Monday in August - Civic Holiday 3rd Monday in August - Discovery Day (Yukon) 1st Monday in September - Labor Day 2nd Monday in October - Thanksgiving November 11 - Remembrance Day December 25 - Christmas Day December 26 - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to CanadaTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_canada_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Sprawled along the Alberta-British Columbia border, the Rockies are barely contained within two gigantic national parks - Banff to the South and Jasper to the north. Banff was Canada's first official wildlife sanctuary and these days the town that lent its name to the park is the nation's number one resort spot year round. But Jasper National Park has a larger, wilder and less explored landscape on show.  Banff's glorious turquoise Moraine Lake, while in danger of suffering cliche overload, is one of Canada's most idyllic natural attractions. Connecting Banff and Jasper parks is the Columbia Icefield, a vast bowl of ice made up of about 30 glaciers and a remnant of the last Ice Age. For those not glacially inclined, the Rockies offer wildlife walks, swimming, caving, camping, hiking, canoeing, hot-spring soaking, mountain climbing and plenty of places to stay. Accommodation costs are generally lower at the Jasper end of this quintessential Canadian mountain playground.  
north_america_cancun_activities.html:  Activities  Resort hotels, travel agencies and tour operators in the area can book you on day-cruise boats bound for snorkeling spots at the barrier reef and for other diving sites within 100km (62mi) of Canc n. If you're satisfied seeing the sparser aquatic life off Canc n's beaches, you can rent snorkeling equipment from most luxury hotels. Deep-sea fishing excursions can be booked through agents or hotels, or you can negotiate a deal with a fishing-boat captain at the Puerto Ju rez ferry dock. Also available for rent at various locations are kayaks, boogie boards and inflatables. Speedboats, instructors and equipment are up for grabs should you feel inclined to water-ski.  
north_america_cancun_attractions.html:  Attractions  Let's face it, Isla Canc n is one big beach and there's no use pretending that there's anything else to do here. It's a lazy, beautiful stretch of white sand. The only thing you need to know is that the beaches on the western side face Laguna de Nichupte and are straitjacket-calm and those on the eastern shore face the Caribbean and are prone to fierce undertows. Isla Canc n is 23km (14mi) long, not very wide and known as the Zona Tur stica. The island is connected to Ciudad Canc n by two bridges.  
north_america_cancun_facts.html:  When to Go  Canc n has the sun on permanent retainer. The city's temperature averages an idyllic 80 F (27 C) year-round, dipping painlessly from time to time, hitting 65 F (19 C) in January. It can swelter to 100 F (38 C) in May, though ocean breezes keep it more bearable than the rest of the Yucat n, which can get drenchingly muggy and hot. Rainfall is rare, though violent storms called nortes can roll in on any afternoon, their black clouds, high winds and torrents of rain followed within an hour by bright sun and blue sky. Hurricane season lasts from July to November. Canc n last got clobbered in 1988 by Hurricane Gilbert.  November and early December are perhaps the best times to go, as there are fewer tourists and prices are low. The busy season is from mid-December to April, when prices are noticeably higher. Surcharges get tacked on around the Christmas, New Year's and Easter holidays.     Events  Canc n treats every day as a holiday, but also plans a few organized events throughout the year. The biggest event is Carnaval, a joyous, usually drunken celebration held in February right before Lent's period of fasting and penitence. Inmaculada Concepcion is a religious festival held on Isla Mujeres in December.  The athletically inclined might consider running Canc n's International Marathon right before the mad Christmas tourist rush.    
north_america_cancun_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Six species of sea turtle lay eggs in the sand along the island's calm western shore. Although they are endangered, sea turtles are still killed throughout Latin America for their eggs and meat, which are considered a delicacy. In the 1980s, efforts by a local fisherman led to the founding of the Centro de Investigaciones and the Isla Mujeres Turtle Farm, which protects the turtles' breeding grounds and places their eggs in incubators, out of harm's way. Hatchlings live in three large pools for up to a year, at which time they are tagged for monitoring and released. Because most turtles in the wild die within their first few months, the practice of guarding them until they are a year old greatly increases their chances of survival. The Turtle Farm is a scientific facility, not an amusement center. But if you'd like to see several hundred sea turtles, ranging in weight from 150g (5oz) to more than 300kg (661lb), this is the place for you.  
north_america_cape_cod_activities.html:  Activities  The Cape's best cycling trail, the Cape Rail Trail, follows the old Penn Central Railroad line from South Dennis to South Wellfleet. It's a scenic 25 mile (40km) ride with a number of places where riders can rent their bikes at the beginning, end or along the way. The trail passes through some of the Cape's typically impressive landscapes, including the Nickerson State park, salt marshes and crimson-colored cranberry bogs. .  The Cape's hundred of miles of shoreline make sea-kayaking an outdoors highlight, but paddling around Waquoit Bay National Estuarine Research Reserve, near Falmouth, is particularly rewarding. Sandy Neck Beach, arguably Cape Cod Bay's best place for beach bumming, is 6mi (16km) long and backed by a rather extensive network of high dunes. A 10-mi (16km) salt marsh roundtrip begins at the gatehouse parking lot and heads into the dunes. Along the way, there are four cross trails that connect the main trail to the beach. It's well worth the four-hour walk.  The Cape Cod Central Railroad makes a two-hour scenic train ride running between Hyannis and Sandwich. There are three trips daily except Monday. You could take either early train, get off in Sandwich, mosey into the village (about a 10-minute walk) and catch the last train back. Provincetown began attracting artists in the early 1900s shortly after the Cape Cod School of Art was founded in 1899 by Charles Hawthorne. By the 1920s artists drawn to the clear light had created a fashionable art colony. Provincetown remains a vital center on the American arts scene with more than 20 galleries representing artists of various persuasions, from avant-garde to representational, making it the perfect place for gallery hopping.  
north_america_cape_cod_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Cape's commercial and transportation hub has a rejuvenated waterfront and Main St area, which make it a pleasant place to wait for a ferry or a bus. Hyannis draws crowds of summer college workers for their one night off per week, and also attracts Kennedy fans: Hyannisport is the summer home to this US political family.  From US 6, take MA 132 South (exit 6) to the airport rotary to Barnstable Rd to Main St. From Falmouth or Chatham, take MA 28 directly to Main St (one-way), the principal shopping and dining thoroughfare. Both ferry terminals (the Ocean St Dock and the South St Dock) are about a 10-minute walk from the bus station, which is just one block north of Main St.  
north_america_cape_cod_environment.html:  Environment  Cape Cod sticks out of Massachusetts like a teenage boy flexing his (somewhat puny) muscles. Locals use a somewhat confusing nomenclature for the various Cape Cod districts. Cape Cod Bay laps at the shoreline's inner rim, Nantucket Sound is to the south, while the Atlantic pounds on the eastern shore.  The 'Upper Cape' is nearest the canal and the mainland. Its principal towns are Bourne, Falmouth, Mashpee and Sandwich. 'Mid-Cape' extends from Barnstable and Hyannis eastward to Orleans, including Yarmouth and Dennis. The 'Lower' (or 'Outer') Cape extends north and east from Orleans to Provincetown, including Brewster, Harwich, Chatham, Orleans, Eastham, Wellfleet, and Truro.  
north_america_cape_cod_facts.html:  When to Go  Cape Cod and the Islands (Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard) are time-honored summer holiday getaways. In July and August they come to life. From late September to early June, many of the Cape's towns go into hibernation, although there's usually places to stay and eat. Winters are wild and woolly, ideal for reflective walks and comfort food for those to whom the fantasy that they are the last people on earth appeals. Those who like to have their littoral cake and eat it, too, should plan their visit around the July and August peak - ideally, before Memorial Day or after Labor Day.     Events  The Figawi Race from Hyannis to Nantucket is the largest sailing regatta on the East Coast. The boats hit the water each May. Provincetown's Portuguese Festival in June is a highlight of the Cape social calendar and hard to beat for sheer merriment. In July, Native Americans congregate from across the country for the Wampanoag Pow Wow, a three-day celebration of Native American culture by way of tribal dances and events. Falmouth's Harvest Day is a fall highlight and over the Christmas period a stroll through the Cape's villages reveals them decked out in boughs of holly and other picture-perfect Yuletide paraphernalia.    
north_america_cape_cod_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This island to the south of the Cape is where the well-to-do come to drop their money, not - as the name suggests - where spinster aunts drown their sorrows. Summers at the Vineyard are studded with celebrities, most famously Walter Cronkite - oh, the Clintons are known to drop in, too). But for all the hype, high season is nonetheless a kind of bucolic rush hour, with daytrippers driving off the ferry at the main port of Vineyard Haven and yachties prowling the coast. Oak Bluff is the centre of the holiday merriment, a Victorian-era resort town with porch-wrapped summer houses and a gazebo where bands play, while the Vineyard's other towns still have a foot planted in their whaling origins.  
north_america_chicago_activities.html:  Activities  Retrace the route of French trapper Louis Jolliet while you have an urban adventure by canoeing the Chicago River. Besides urban sprawl, you're likely to see deer, red fox, beaver and birds. You'll also see parks and houses being built that show that Chicago has finally discovered that its namesake river is good for more bucolic pursuits than as an industrial sewer. Kayaking can also be enjoyed on Lake Michigan and along the Chicago River. The best place to access both is from the Chicago Harbor at Navy Pier, where the Chicago River empties into Lake Michigan. Diversey Harbor, near downtown, is another good launching point.   Fishing has become a mayoral priority in Chicago, and a special Fishing Hotline has been set up to answer questions about what to catch, when to cast and how. Most of the lagoons in the parks are stocked in the summer, and charter boats take anglers trolling on Lake Michigan. Coho salmon, rainbow trout, chinook and perch are among the fish you'll find.  Once called 'the opiate of the masses', bowling is a distinctly Midwestern activity. People of all shapes, sizes and ages gather in boisterous groups to send balls crashing into a set of pins. Talent is not a prerequisite. The lanes are most crowded during the cold months. For bowling with charm, try Southport Lanes in Wrigleyville, a 75-year-old bar with 4 lanes and handset pins.  
north_america_chicago_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Art Institute, on the eastern side of the Loop, provides reason alone to visit Chicago. One of the world's premier galleries, the Art Institute has found generous patronage among Chicago's wealthy. Their contributions have funded a magnificent collection that spans 5000 years of art. The bronze lions flanking the steps are Chicago icons.  
north_america_chicago_facts.html:  When to Go  July and August can get really hot in Chicago, with temperatures from 80-90 F (27-32 C) and high humidity. This is also the peak of the festival season, with major events taking place in the parks and neighborhoods every weekend. September is blessed with reliably warm days and is probably the most pleasant month of the year, weather-wise, but there's less going on during this period.  January to March is when Chicago is least busy and hotels and airfares are usually at their cheapest. But it can be damp and cold - between 12 F and 29 F (-11 C and -2 C) if you're lucky - or snowy for days on end. Temperatures and brisk winds will guarantee that you'll spend most of this period indoors.     Events  Blues and jazz musicians have been flocking to Chicago since 1915, so it's no surprise that the city knows how to celebrate its musical heritage with style. The Chicago Blues Festival is a highly regarded three-day festival held in Grant Park on the first weekend in June. Soon after, Grant Park hosts the weekend-long Chicago Gospel Festival and, on Labor Day weekend, the Chicago Jazz Festival.   Taste of Chicago is an enormous festival that closes Grant Park for 10 days leading up to Independence Day in July. Over 100 local eateries serve some of the greasiest food you've ever tried to rub off your fingers. Live music on several stages drowns out the rumble of the belches from the 3.5 million people who attend. The German-American Festival is an enjoyable Oktoberfest-type event held in the heart of an old German neighborhood at Lincoln Square during the third weekend in September.    
north_america_chicago_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  From 1957 to 1967, Chess Records occupied a humble building on South Michigan Avenue, which became a temple of blues and a spawning ground of rock and roll. The Chess brothers, two Polish Jews, ran the recording studio that saw - and heard - the likes of Muddy Waters, Bo Diddley, Howlin' Wolf and Willie Dixon. Chuck Berry recorded four top-10 singles here, and the Rolling Stones named a song '2120 S Michigan Ave' after a recording session in 1964. Today, the building is owned by Willie Dixon's Blues Heaven Foundation, a non-profit organization set up by the late musician to promote blues and preserve its legacy.  
north_america_cincinnati_activities.html:  Activities  Cincinnati is a great town for walking. Its numerous hills will give you a workout, or you can take a more leisurely stroll down by the riverside. See how far you can get without touching a sidewalk by taking the downtown Skyway. Those who like to feel the wind in their hair as they locomote might like jogging along the Central Parkway or across the Suspension Bridge and back, or biking along the 22mi (35km) Little Miami Scenic River Bikeway. Other popular activities include horseback riding and inline skating.  Several city pools and YMCAs offer good swimming, or you can go canoeing down the placid Little Miami River. In many of the city's excellent parks you'll often find a flag football game in progress, and you might even be asked to join in.  
north_america_cincinnati_attractions.html:  Attractions  The view from the gallery atop Carew Tower reveals a bustling city sprinkled with parks and framed by Mount Adams to the northeast and the sensual curves of the Ohio River to the south and east. The art-deco tower stands across the street from Fountain Square, the heart of downtown, where the spray from over a hundred spouts and the shade of dozens of trees cool hot summer afternoon concertgoers. Downtown is peppered with outstanding public art, including a waterfall made of giant books and Jim Dine's Cincinnati Venus.  No place symbolizes the uniquely American synergy of art and commerce like the Procter & Gamble Building, an art-deco gem. The company turned animal fat from the city's slaughterhouses into a soap empire, and by sponsoring a radio show in the 1930s it gave birth to the soap opera.  
north_america_cincinnati_environment.html:  Environment  Fountain Square is the nucleus of the downtown, which has Central Parkway and Third St as its north and south boundaries; Central Ave and Sycamore St are the east-west dividing lines. The downtown is then surrounded by hills on three sides. The hills of the Mt Adams and Eden Park Districts, both east of downtown, proffer lovely views and cultural and gastronomic attractions.  The state park system has an extensive network of hiking trails, the majority of which can be tackled as day hikes. Two major backpacking trails are maintained in the state forest system: Shawnee (60 mi/97km) and Zaleski (23mi/37km). The Buckeye Trail is the state's jewel. It originally linked Mentor Headlands Beach on Lake Erie to Eden Park in Cincinnati. It has since been extended to all four corners of the state, topping out at 1200mi (1931km).  Cincinnati is best visited during any season other than the winter, when temperatures can be unbearably cold and blizzards make sightseeing difficult.  
north_america_cincinnati_facts.html:  When to Go  Cincinnati is comfortable most of the year, but winters (Nov-Feb) are frequently accompanied by blizzards and below-freezing temperatures. The average daily high during the summer (June-Aug) is around 85 F (29 C).     Events  Valentine's Day getting you down? Escape all that romantic muck for he-man's heaven at the Cavalcade of Customs in February, where you can drool over hot rods, dragsters, custom vans and monster trucks. Sommeliers and amateur cork-sniffers can toss phrases like 'precociously impertinent' and 'hint of cigar box' during the International Wine Festival, held in early March. Serious beer drinkers can stumble through the country's second-largest St Patrick's Day Parade later that month. The city becomes a field of red baseball caps and everybody calls in sick on the Cincinnati Reds' Opening Day in April.  Kids will go gaga during June's Zoo Babies festival at the Cincinnati Zoo, when captive animal young go on display. Though the city shoots off a few bottle rockets to celebrate Independence Day on July 4, the biggest party of the year is Labor Day's Riverfest, when the city's real fireworks show lights up the first Monday in September. Hundreds of boats pack the river, and half a million revelers crowd the banks of the Ohio. The city's German heritage is celebrated later in the month during Octoberfest-Zinzinnati, when the streets are slick with pilsner and sauerkraut. You can start the holidays early during mid-November's Festival of Lights, when the Cincinnati Zoo is festooned with two million lights.    
north_america_cincinnati_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Although Cincinnati is relatively well preserved, Covington, across the Ohio River in neighboring Kentucky, offers a rare glimpse of the 19th-century Midwest. Just a few minutes' walk south over the John A Roebling Suspension Bridge (the dry run for New York's Brooklyn Bridge) brings you to a neighborhood of 100-year-old rowhouses, antique shops and German restaurants. Though by day it's little more than a floating mall, Covington Landing, at the foot of the bridge, is a jumping nightspot after sundown.  
north_america_cozumel_activities.html:  Activities  With big thanks to the barrier reef, Cozumel, replete with tropical fish, coral and undersea flora, has some of the best scuba diving in the Yucat n. Schools of dive operators await to sink you to the drop-dead-gorgeous depths below. The 100 or so high-quality sites include Palancar Reef, Santa Rosa and Punta Sur. Aficionados of snorkeling are also sure to smile a lot here; the most idyllic places to don your snorkeling apparatus are reached by boat. Half-day tours cost a pretty penny but are worth it, though you can save the fare by walking into the gentle surf at Playa La Ceiba, Bah a Chankanaab, Playa San Francisco and elsewhere.  In Cozumel's bath-temperature waters, swimming is always a pleasure. There are many great spots to practice that stroke, though be wary of some of the east-coast beaches where strong currents might spoil your plans. Various tour agents offer a chance to get back to the island's roots with deep-sea fishing trips. To get a little higher, you might want to give parasailing a go.  
north_america_cozumel_attractions.html:  Attractions  Isla Cozumel's only town is San Miguel de Cozumel, and it is where you'll find many restaurants, bars, hotels, tour agencies, banks and other amenities. It is well-equipped to deal with the global influx - you can chow down on food ranging from vegetarian to Mediterranean to local mesquite-grilled chicken.  The waterfront Avenida Rafael Melgar is generally bustling with cruise-ship tourists; wander off the track a little for a dose of the vibrant local scene. But before leaving Avenida Rafael Melgar, check out the fine Museo de la Isla de Cozumel, which presents a clear and detailed picture of the island's flora, fauna, geography, geology and ancient Mayan history. Well-scripted signs in both English and Spanish accompany the exhibits. Get your lesson on Coral 101 here before heading out to the reefs.   Plaza Del Sol, the town's main square, is a popular spot for strolling, hanging out and people-watching, especially on Sunday evenings when all of the locals seem to be out, soaking up the atmosphere.  
north_america_cozumel_facts.html:  When to Go  The busy winter tourism season, when prices reach their peak, overtakes the island from mid-December to April. This time of year is attractive not just because it's winter in North America and Europe (and you can make friends back home jealous with your souvenir tan), but also because it's not raining and the heat isn't unbearably muggy. May, the end of the dry season, and June, the start of the rains, sees Cozumel at its hottest and muggiest - don't come at this time, if you can help it.  Summer tourists start pouring in during July and August, which are hot, with temps in the high-80 s to low-90 sF (30-33 C), and not overwhelmingly rainy. September and October are less rainy and a lot less crowded. The ideal time to arrive, however, is probably November through to early December, when it is even drier and quieter.     Events  Like much of the world, Cozumel celebrates Carnaval come late February or early March. Costumed revelers, fantastic floats on parade, and music and dancing galore make up the festivities. Things also get busy in the land of the Maya during Semana Santa (Holy Week); it culminates with Easter Sunday, an official holiday. Cinco de Mayo (5 May) commemorates the 1862 end of Mexico's occupation by French forces and is also an official holiday.  The country comes alive with patriotism again on 15 September for Independence Day, which sees Cozumel hopping with parties, food and fireworks. On 2 November, D a de los Muertos, or Day of the Dead, is a time to pay tribute to the departed - every cemetery comes alive with festive visitors. Around 12 December is the Day of the Virgin of Guadalupe, which is celebrated in Cozumel with a race around the island followed by a party into the wee hours.    
north_america_cozumel_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The southern tip of Isla Cozumel has a postcard-perfect historic lighthouse, which is accessible only via a dirt track 4km (2.5mi) from the highway. From the top of the lighthouse, built in the early 1900s, you get a special all-over view of the island below. Also making the Punta Celarain worth a visit is the on-site navigational museum. If you want to turn this trip into a full afternoon, stop off at some of the isolated beaches on your way - they're just a jump over the sand dunes.  
north_america_dallas_activities.html:  Activities  Dallas has more than 50,000 acres (20,000ha) of public parks, most notably Fair Park, White Rock Lake Park northeast of downtown and Bachman Lake just northwest of Love Field. The longest bicycling and hiking trail is the 17-mile (27km) path around White Rock Lake. A 3-mile (5km) trail circles Bachman Lake. Trinity Trails is a network of hiking, biking and equestrian trails covering 35 miles (56km) along the Trinity River, Sycamore Creek and Marine Creek. It can be accessed from most of Fort Worth's major parks, including Heritage Park, where you can rent equipment for canoeing, kayaking or pedal boating. And a trip to Texas wouldn't be complete without at least one attempt at horseback riding. There are places to rent horses on the edge of the Stockyards National Historic District in Fort Worth.  
north_america_dallas_attractions.html:  Attractions  Dallas will forever be known as the city where President John F Kennedy was shot, and the sites associated with his death are among Dallas' most visited attractions. If you have time to visit only one, make it the Sixth Floor Museum, a thoughtful, comprehensive tribute to the life, death and legacy of JFK. Located in the former Texas School Book Depository, this museum feels frozen in time, from the go-go days of 1960, when JFK proclaimed in his inaugural address, 'Let the word go forth ... that the torch has been passed to a new generation,' to the tempestuous times that followed.  With that background in place, the museum explains in minute-by-minute detail the events of 22 November 1963. Artifacts include the original layout for the front page of that afternoon's Dallas Times Herald, stills from the famous home movie filmed by Abraham Zapruder, a teletype machine endlessly reprinting the first report of the murder and an FBI model of the assassination site. But the most evocative exhibit is the corner window overlooking Dealey Plaza, the grassy knoll and the triple underpass: the same vista suspected gunman Lee Harvey Oswald had on that fateful November day.  
north_america_dallas_facts.html:  When to Go  Dallas' summers are hot and its winters cool, making spring and fall months the best times to visit. Spring and fall are also the peaks of the festival season in Dallas and neighboring towns, offering hearty Texas helpings of art, barbecue, music, rodeo and tall tales.     Events  It doesn't get any bigger than the big Texas State Fair held for a month every fall in Fair Park. The fair is a hundred-year-old institution and features buckets of barbecue, bronco busting rodeo and America's biggest ferris wheel, the Texas Star. The Deep Ellum Arts and Music Festival is a weekend of alternative art and live music on multiple stages throughout the Deep Ellum district; it occurs every April. Artfest, held over the Memorial Day weekend in May, brings visual artists to Fair Park to raise money for Dallas' cultural scene. Aviation buffs can kick the tires of military planes on display during the Dallas Airshow held at Love Field every September.  In 1958, a 24 year old Louisiana native named Van Cliburn became the first American to win the Tchaikovsky piano competition in Moscow. Today, he lends his name to the Van Cliburn International Piano Competition, held every four years in Fort Worth. Up to a million people attend Fort Worth's annual three week Southwestern Stock Show and Rodeo held late January through early February. The show marked its 100th anniversary in 1996. The Chisholm Trail Round-Up is another Fort Worth cowboy lovefest, held each June. The Texas Storytelling Festival is a tall-tale competition held at the end of March in Denton, located 36 miles (58km) northwest of Dallas.    
north_america_dallas_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Dallas and its twin, Fort Worth, anchor a region of more than 4.8 million people, the most populous in Texas. Although the cities are only 30 miles (48km) apart, closely linked by growth and geography, they offer two distinct takes on the Texas experience. If Dallas is skyscrapers, Fort Worth is streetscapes: the awesome mural of the Chisholm Trail (the famous cattle trail that once wound from San Antonio, Texas, north to Abilene, Kansas) at Sundance Square, the hitching posts of the Stockyards, the cobblestones of old Camp Bowie Blvd. Fort Worth is proud of its Cowtown nickname, but the livestock industry is just a small part of what's happening here these days.  Fort Worth found fame during the great open-range cattle drives, which lasted from the 1860s to the 1880s. More than 10 million head of cattle trooped through the city during the Chisholm Trail days. When the railroad arrived in 1873, stockyards were established at Fort Worth and many drovers chose to end the trek here. Outlaws Robert Leroy Parker and Harry Longbaugh - better known as Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid - spent a lot of time hiding out in a part of downtown known as Hell's Half Acre; Depression-era hold-up artists Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow also spent time in the city. Most of the mayhem of Fort Worth's wild days, however, came from rank-and-file cowboys who boozed and brawled through town, giving Fort Worth a far different image than that of God-fearing Dallas. The cattle business remained the top industry in Fort Worth through the 1920s, even as major finds in nearby fields turned the city into an important operations center for the oil industry.  For years the heart of Fort Worth, the Stockyards National Historic District remains popular with visitors and residents. What was once the center of the ranching industry is now mostly an entertainment and shopping district, though a bit of cattle business still takes place. Known as 'Wall Street of the West,' the Fort Worth Livestock Exchange includes a museum of photos and memorabilia from the heyday of Fort Worth's cattle industry.   Sundance Square, a 14-block area, is one of the most vibrant downtown districts in Texas. The renaissance started in the early 1980s with the openings of the Worthington Hotel and the Caravan of Dreams nightclub, and it continues with a constant influx of new restaurants, shops, colorful street-level architecture and plenty of public art - most notably the trompe l'oeil Chisholm Trail mural.  Most visitors to Fort Worth arrive at DFW International Airport, 17 miles (27km) east of Fort Worth, but Fort Worth Meacham Airport is a good alternative for in-state travel from Austin, Houston and San Antonio. Greyhound buses and Amtrak trains also service Fort Worth, 30 miles (48km) west of Dallas via I-30. A bus ride between the two takes less than an hour.  
north_america_denver_activities.html:  Activities  The world-class skiing and snowboarding available at several nearby Rocky Mountain resorts are a big part of Denver's winter persona. Powder junkies from around the world descend on Vail each winter, making it the most visited ski resort in the United States. Denver's daytrippers are just as likely to hit nearby Eldora and Loveland for their dose of downhill. Loveland also boasts extensive cross-country trails, which make for excellent telemarking. For those who find a single season not nearly enough time to play in the snow, there's always the permanent snow field at 11,000ft (3300m) St Mary's Glacier, a few hours' drive west of Denver. Those with wheels of their own can reach Loveland Basin, 56 miles (90km) west of Denver, via I-70. Carless skiers can catch private shuttles that run from Denver's hotels and airport; many of Vail's resorts run airport shuttles that are free to guests.  Its location at the foot of the Rockies makes Denver a magnet for hiking enthusiasts. The 500 mile (805km) Colorado Trail starts at Chatfield Reservoir, 10 miles (16km) south of Denver, and enters the Rocky Mountains along the South Platte River. On its way to Durango in southwestern Colorado, it crosses eight mountain ranges, seven national forests, six wilderness areas and five river systems. Eliciting less commitment, day hikes to the 9700ft (2900m) Devil's Head Lookout in the forested Rampart Range, 30 miles (50km) southwest of Denver, are popular with those who like a good workout before settling into a picnic. In a little over a mile, you can climb almost 1000ft (300m) to the fire lookout, which offers a commanding view of Spanish Peaks to the south, Mt Evans to the north, South Park to the west and the Eastern Plains.  Denver's flat terrain and wide streets make bicycling easy, though intrepid road riders will find more intriguing loops beginning in Golden and in nearby parklands that offer offroad riding opportunities. Matthews/Winters Park, a short drive west of Denver along Hwy 26, is a favorite local mountain biking destination. A further 20 miles (32km) southwest, the USFS South Platte Ranger District offers about 40 miles (64km) of bike trails in the Buffalo Creek Mountain Bike Area. For maps and information on the trails and road loops, two good resources are Len Newton's Mountain Bike Rides: South Platte Ranger District and the Colorado Division of Parks and Recreation's free North Front Range map of urban trails. There's a Denver Metro Bike Routes map in the Denver phone book.  Castlewood Canyon State Park, 25 miles (40km) south of Denver, is a popular rock climbing area. The vertical rock faces at Boulder's Eldorado Canyon State Park offer Class 5.6 to 5.9 climbs, but be sure to steer clear of the peregrine and prairie falcons nests on the walls unless you want some attention from park rangers. No-bolt sport climbing is available on the three Flatirons, reached via hiking trails from Chautauqua Park close to Boulder.  Clear Creek offers exciting Class III white-water rafting for 15 miles (24km) between Idaho Springs and Golden, plus challenging Class IV rapids from May to October. Half-day trips for intermediate rafters aged 16 years or over can be organized with rafting companies in Denver.  
north_america_denver_attractions.html:  Attractions  One of the premier natural history museums in the country, this institution was founded at the turn of the century to house the collection of Colorado naturalist Edwin Carter. Museum scientists attracted international attention following their 1926 discovery (near Folsom, New Mexico) of distinctive spear points in association with bones of a bison species extinct for 10,000 years. The discovery proved the existence of humans in the New World about 8000 years earlier than previously assumed. Visitors can see dinosaur fossils like Stegosaurus stenops (the state fossil), a small-headed, armor-plated vegetarian that roamed the state 150 million years ago. Enormous remains of the Nebraska mammoth and long-jawed mastodon are also on display.  The museum is located 3 miles (5km) east of downtown Denver in City Park. Also housed in the complex is an IMAX Theater, a giant-screen movie experience that wows audiences with - of all things - nature documentaries, and the Gates Planetarium, which features a laser light show tour of distant galaxies. Visitors on a hell-bent pace or with short attention spans could also squeeze in a visit to the neighboring Denver Zoo on the same day.  
north_america_denver_facts.html:  When to Go  Depending on what you're after, Denver is a year-round destination. The winter ski season (roughly November through March) lures snow bunnies from around the globe, while drier times see hikers, bikers and climbers heading up, down and around every bump worth bagging. Naturalists will delight in watching dry and comfy autumn paint the landscape with more rusty lemon-yellows than a junkyard in Detroit. And springtime, while typically windy and wet, sees Colorado's oceans of wildflowers burst into bloom.     Events  Denver is a regional hub for cultural events, offering national touring acts year round at the massive Performing Arts Complex and summer performances at Red Rocks Amphitheater. Kicking off the new year in mid-January is the two-week National Western Stock Show & Rodeo, the largest show of its kind in the country. Mexico's independence is celebrated May 5th during Cinco de Mayo with two days of festivities at the 16th St Mall.  The first weekend in June, head to the Civic Center Park to see a quarter of a million diverse people at the Capitol Hill People's Fair - a gargantuan arts and crafts gala. The first weekend in July is the Cherry Creek Arts Festival, one of the country's largest arts and crafts shows. Bring a healthy appetite to A Taste of Colorado, a showcase of the region's top restaurant talent, held on Labor Day weekend in September at the Civic Center Park. Colorado's Shakespeare Festival is a six-week summer event at the University of Colorado-Boulder campus.   Public Holidays:1 January - New Year's DayThird Monday in January - Martin Luther King Jr DayThird Monday in February - Presidents' DayLate March or April - EasterLast Monday in May - Memorial Day4 July - Independence DayFirst Monday in August - Colorado DayFirst Monday in September - Labor DaySecond Monday in October - Columbus Day11 November - Veterans' DayFourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to DenverTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_denver_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  A short drive (but a far cry) from the capital, Boulder is the Plains region's sanctum of all that is tuned in, turned on and scented with patchouli. With more artists' co-ops and vegan eateries than you can shake a smudge stick at, this place is about as similar to cowpokey Colorado as it is to ... well, Denver. While the latter shines with its big-city lights, tiny Boulder sits quietly, contemplating its navel, reveling in its low-key ways. Know this, traveler: if Denver is the Queen City of the Plains, then plucky Boulder is the Knave.  Boulderites - one quarter of whom are university students - value their quality of life, a fact reflected in the human scale of the pedestrian Pearl St Mall, the town's network of bicycle routes and the surrounding greenbelt that allows the locals to enjoy the area's sylvan attractions within a Frisbee's fling of their homes.  Typically atypical, Boulder's centers of higher learning include the National Center for Atmospheric Research, where some of the world's fastest supercomputers (and supercomputer geeks) click and whir inside their striking sandstone home (designed by architect IM Pei) at the foot of the Flatiron Rock Formation. Closer to downtown, hipsters howl for the new-agey Naropa Institute, where poet Allen Ginsberg helped found the Jack Kerouac School of Disembodied Poetics in homage to his fellow Beatnik bard. This definitely ain't your mother's Lit program.  Twenty-seven miles (43km) northwest of Denver, Boulder is an easy half-hour's drive from downtown Denver along Hwy 36. Buses between Denver and Boulder are frequent and can carry bicycles in their cargo compartments.  
north_america_detroit_activities.html:  Activities  The wide Detroit River provides a good berth for summertime sailing and boating - dodging the constant freighters transporting stuff from the north is a sport in itself. Belle Isle, the pretty Detroit River island just a stone's throw from downtown, has a 5 mile (8km) road around its circumference that's good for running and cycling. Georgian Bay, which bulges out of the northeastern corner of Lake Huron, about a half day's drive from Detroit, has some incredible scuba diving. Hundreds of ships have been lost on its shoals over the decades. Lake Michigan's Manitou Passage is another good diving spot.  
north_america_detroit_attractions.html:  Attractions  While walking through much of downtown Detroit can be like touring a not so amusing ghost town, the eastern area along the riverfront is a vibrant and rather attractive section of the city with lots to see and do. Detroit's black circular glass Renaissance Center (RenCen) is full of offices, hotels, restaurants and shops. From the top, it has a stupendous view of the Great Lakes, Michigan's prairies and nearby Canada - worth a peruse either from the revolving restaurant or the free viewing deck.  Walking distance from the glitzy RenCen is Greektown, a packed 8-block hub of Mediterranean life, full of traditional Greek restaurants, fresh-baked baklava bakeries, bustling coffeehouses and ouzerias. There's also an active Greek orthodox church that's quite easy on the eyes. Nearby is Trappers Alley, a historic fur trapper's warehouse that now houses shops and a museum.  
north_america_detroit_environment.html:  Environment  Southern Michigan is dominated by urban centers. Michigan's heartland is a 20-county region that lies at the center of the Lower Peninsula, south of US 10 and away from the Great Lakes shore lines. It includes urban areas, farm fields and suburbs connected by a network or interstates (I-94, I-96, I-69 and I-196) and US highways. On your way north don't necessarily forsake these cities; some of them are attractive and have their own charm.  Detroit and southeastern Michigan are regions of vivid contrasts. While some parts of Detroit are depressing displays of urban blight, suburbs such as Birmingham and West Bloomfield make Oakland County, just north of Detroit, one of the richest counties in the United States.  
north_america_detroit_facts.html:  When to Go  Detroit is best visited in fall or spring, when the Detroit River is a recreation option and Michigan's foliage is at its most vibrant. During these seasons, the city's museums and sights are less crowded than in summer. Detroit is freezing cold in winter and unbearably humid in summer, with the height of discomfort hitting in July.     Events  The  International Freedom Festival is held in tandem with the Canadian city of Windsor as a joint celebration of Canada's Dominion Day (July 1) and the USA's Independence Day (July 4). Fireworks are set off from the Detroit River. The African World Festival, held the third weekend of August, shouts 'Africa' with music, art and food shared along Detroit's riverfront. One of the country's most prestigious jazz festivals, the Montreux Detroit Jazz Festival, is held over 5 days in September.    
north_america_detroit_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Henry Ford and 11 associates opened the Ford Motor Company in 1903 with US$28,000 in cash. They used the money to kick off their tiny operation in a converted Detroit wagon shop and employ 10 people. Today, Ford is the second largest car and truck maker in the world, and 370,000 people work for the company.  Ford was born and raised in Dearborn, a small town not far from Detroit. In 1915, he moved himself and parts of the company back to his home town and a decade and a half later opened the doors to this sprawling museum complex dedicated to the 'the spirit of innovation in America.' The museum remains much as Ford originally planned and is - surprise! - a massive shrine to the automobile and its impact on America. Here the cult and culture of the car is beaten to a pulp and the museum's grounds are congested with full-size highway billboards, fast food neon signs, a gas station, diner and other roadside attractions. The Wienermobile used in 1936 by Oscar Meyer hot dogs is a particular knockout.  The Henry Ford Museum is in Dearborn, 8 miles (12km) southwest of Detroit on Hwy 12. The SMART bus service can get you there, but you're better off driving yourself. It would make Henry proud.  
north_america_fairbanks_activities.html:  Activities  Winter sports enthusiasts are overwhelmed for choice in Fairbanks. There are plenty of well-kept cross-country skiing trails, and some downhill and snowboarding options not too far away. Snowshoeing has become a popular pursuit in its own right, as well as a way to get around. Snowmachines are also both a transportation method and a sporting activity. Even walking a dog takes on a particular Interior slant, with locals adding cross-country skis to the mix, and calling it skijoring. Of course, dog mushing is huge, as is ice fishing. There is also ample opportunity to rent equipment for the more prosaic ice skating and ice hockey.   Fishing is popular in winter (with an ice auger and some patience) and during the warmer months (with strong insect repellent). Note, you are more likely to catch an Arctic grayling than a salmon in these parts. Fairbanks is close to a wide range of canoeing spots, and although there isn't hiking on the urban doorstep, there are some good walks close by, accessible by road. Golf, birdwatching and gold panning are also easy to arrange.  
north_america_fairbanks_attractions.html:  Attractions  Even if you find theme parks a little corny, Pioneer Park (the park formerly known as Alaskaland) makes for a very enjoyable afternoon. And apart from some tours and attractions, it's free. Inside are historical displays such as the Nenana, a former stern-wheeler of the Yukon River fleet, the railroad car that carried President Warren Harding to the golden spike ceremony in 1923, the home of Judge James Wickersham and a century-old carousel that's still going round and round and round. You'll also find Gold Rush Town, a street of relocated log cabins, many converted into gift shops; the Pioneer Air Museum; and the Pioneers Museum, which depicts the settlement of Alaska.  At the back of the park, you'll find the Native Village Museum, a look at traditional Athabascan life, and the Mining Valley, which has displays of gold-mining equipment. A miniature 30-gauge train, the Crooked Creek & Whiskey Island Railroad, will take the kids around the park, and at night there is entertainment at the Palace Saloon. You'll also find one of the best salmon bakes in the state on site. A free shuttle bus, made to look like a train, makes hourly runs each day between the visitor center and major hotels to the park.  
north_america_fairbanks_facts.html:  When to Go  Most travelers like to visit Alaska from June through August, making the most of the warmer temperatures. Fairbanks has particularly pleasant weather at this time, dry and sometimes even hitting 90 F (32 C). Peak summer - from early July through mid-August - tends to attract colossal crowds to the bigger Alaskan sights (including the nearby Denali National Park), making travel during the shoulder season - May and September - a better chance for discounts on accommodation and transportation. This optimal shoulder is short, with the Interior usually still elbow deep in slush and mud in April, and covered in snow by mid-October.  Most festivals and events in Fairbanks take place during the summer periods of 24-hour daylight, though for a look at the Northern Lights you will need to come late August through to April, with the best 'shows' in February.  The state is attempting to attract more visitors during the winter months (November through February) by promoting a 'winter wonderland' of skiing and dog-sledding, and, as mentioned, the prominence of the Northern Lights at this time of year; -50 F (-45 C) temperatures (and colder) are the fine-print warnings.     Events   Golden Days has grown to be Fairbanks' largest celebration of the summer. Staged during the third week of July, the festival commemorates Felix Pedro's discovery of gold with parades, games, booths, a boat parade on the Chena River and numerous special events, such as the hairy legs contest. The summer solstice is also well celebrated, on June 21. Events include footraces, speedboat races, art and craft booths and the traditional midnight sun baseball game, where no artificial lights are used.  Around the second week in August, the Tanana Valley Fair is held at the fairgrounds on College Rd. Alaska's oldest fair features sideshows, a rodeo, entertainment, livestock shows and large produce. Fairbanks is the home of the North America Sled Dog Championships, a three-day event in which mushers, some with teams as large as 20 dogs, compete in a series of races. The Yukon Quest, which many mushers argue is by far tougher than the better-known Iditarod, is a 1023-mile run between Fairbanks and Whitehorse. It happens in February.  All US public holidays are celebrated, with Independence Day (July 4) being particularly popular in the state.    
north_america_fairbanks_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Situated on the northern and southern flanks of the Alaska Range, 237mi (382km) from Anchorage, Denali is the nation's premier subarctic national park, encompassing 6 million acres (2,400,000ha). Making its presence felt here at a towering 20,320ft (6096m) is Mt McKinley, undoubtedly the main attraction of the park and something to behold on a clear day. The park offers camping, hiking, backpacking, mountain biking and white-water rafting. It all comes at a slight price though, since nearly a million visitors queue up for permits and the shuttle buses during the summer months. Try to go in early June or late September to avoid the crowds, but whatever time you visit, once in the park itself, the experience is as majestic and awe inspiring as ever. There is camping within the park as well as other accommodation. Buses service the park from Fairbanks, but a better, if pricey, introduction to this natural spectacle is offered from the glass dome-topped cars of the Alaska Railroad, with trains departing daily from Fairbanks and travelling south to Anchorage.  
north_america_fort_lauderdale_activities.html:  Activities  Fort Lauderdale offers over 20 miles (32km) of Atlantic coast, perfect for snorkeling or diving. There are tons of dive shops along the beach, which can point you toward the reefs and wrecks. Pompano Beach, about 10 miles (16km) north of Fort Lauderdale, has some challenges for experienced divers. Water skiing is possible on the ocean, but equipment rental is usually outrageously expensive. You can fish in the Intracoastal Waterway; a particularly pleasant spot is from Hugh Taylor Birch State Recreation Area. The recreation area is also a good place to head to hike and camp. Outside of the ocean, there's no better place to swim in all of Fort Lauderdale than the Aquatic Complex at the International Swimming Hall of Fame. For an otherworldly experience, go on a swim with the dolphins trip to the Florida Keys; tour operators leave from Fort Lauderdale.  
north_america_fort_lauderdale_attractions.html:  Attractions  Fort Lauderdale's Museum of Art is one of Florida's best. Reopened in 1985 in brand new (and architecturally impressive) digs just off the New River, the museum's permanent collection includes works by the likes of Picasso, Matisse, Dali and Warhol. Equally impressive are the growing collections of Cuban and ethnographic art, including large African and South American exhibits. You can't ever really know what you're going to see on a particular visit, as the enormity of the collection far outpaces the available space. If you're visiting in the fall, keep an eye out for the Hortt Memorial Exhibition & Competition, which showcases the best of area artists. The museum is centrally located in downtown Fort Lauderdale, north of the New River.  
north_america_fort_lauderdale_facts.html:  When to Go  To much of America's youth, Fort Lauderdale still revolves around Spring Break, which takes place every year for a week in late March or early April. While the town has managed to crack down on the intensity of Spring Break antics, party legends die hard and the faithful still arrive by the carload. If you love beer-soaked crowds of scantily clad young 'adults,' come to Fort Lauderdale for the week's festivities. For a calmer atmosphere, come any other time. Fort Lauderdale's climate is tropical, with an average year-round temperature of 77 F (25 C) and plenty of sunshine. August is the warmest month but also gets the heaviest rainfall. Winter temperatures don't drop much below 65 F (18 C), with January being the coolest month of the year.     Events  Bikini contests, volleyball tournaments and drinking events abound during Spring Break, the annual college student pilgrimage to Fort Lauderdale that occurs each year in late March or early April. Locals take over partying duties in early May for the Cajun/Zydeco Crawfish Festival, a celebration marked by great Cajun seafood and the best of Louisiana music. The culturati will appreciate the city's International Film Festival in late October.   Public Holidays:1 January - New Year's DayThird Monday in January - Martin Luther King Jr DayThird Monday in February - Presidents' DayLate March or April - EasterLast Monday in May - Memorial Day4 July - Independence DayFirst Monday in September - Labor DaySecond Monday in October - Columbus Day11 November - Veterans' DayFourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to Fort LauderdaleTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_fort_lauderdale_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Where there's nature left in southeast Florida, it's best to see it fast, and the Hugh Taylor Birch State Recreation Area is one of the spots to see. For almost a mile in the middle of the beach (north of East Sunrise Blvd), the state-protected park contains one of the last significant maritime hammocks left around Fort Lauderdale, mangroves, a freshwater lagoon system and several species of endangered flora and fauna, including the gopher tortoise and golden leather fern. Oh yeah - there's luscious peace and quiet here as well. The park allows beach access, and within the grounds you can fish in the Intracoastal Waterway, picnic, hike, bike or canoe.  
north_america_halifax_activities.html:  Activities  Halifax offers a plethora of organized tours; naturally enough, boats feature, but hiking and even ghost walks can be arranged as well. If you want to get a little closer to Halifax's harbor, you can get into some ocean kayaking (either on your own or as part of a tour) or try scuba diving. There are about 50 wrecks at the mouth of the harbor, and more good diving along the coast. On dry land there's trail walking, rock climbing and cycling, either on your own or with a group.  
north_america_halifax_attractions.html:  Attractions  As the name suggests, this museum on the Canadian Forces Base is full of displays of the past history of the Maritimes, so you can expect to see plenty of uniforms and medals. The museum is housed in an impressive stone building - it was the private residence of the commander-in-chief of the British Royal Navy in North America from 1819-1904 - and the grounds feature numerous cannons.  
north_america_halifax_facts.html:  When to Go  Spring, summer and autumn are all ideal for visiting Halifax, and winter tourism is becoming popular despite the reduced daylight hours. Most facilities get pretty busy during the Canadian summer vacation time, the end of June to early September. Unfortunately the same busy facilities may be closed outside this peak summer time. A good compromise if you don't like crowds is to visit mid-May to mid-June or during September, when the weather is generally good enough for everyone except possibly campers who forget to pack thermals.     Events  In summertime, the living in Halifax is easy - the weather is warm, the days are long and the festivals are out in force. On a Saturday afternoon in late June, pink pride reigns at the Gay Pride Parade in downtown Halifax. Shortly after this is Canada Day, Canada's birthday, celebrated on July 1 with a solemn display of fireworks, rock concerts and parades. The Nova Scotia International Tattoo celebrates the region's Scottish heritage with vast formations of bagpipers on parade in the first week of July. Halifax Natal Day, held at the end of July/early August, is a major event featuring a parade, street parties, boat races and more. The DuMaurier Atlantic Jazz Festival whips up a storm of improvisation at the end of July, while the Halifax Atlantic Fringe Festival provides a feast of buskers, musicians, actors, comics, mimics and anyone else who thinks life is too short to attend insurance seminars. Events are staged mostly in the metro area.  There are no surprises when it comes to public holidays in Halifax. New Year's Day (January 1), Easter (April-May), Thanksgiving (second Monday in October), Remembrance Day (November 11) and Christmas Day (December 25) and Boxing Day (December 26) are all celebrated. Canada Day on July 1 and Civic Holiday, the first Monday in August, are important Canadian holidays. Labor Day, the first Monday in September, is a key date, as it unofficially marks the end of summer and the closure of many businesses.    
north_america_halifax_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This small island - out in the harbor and easily seen from York Redoubt - makes a pleasant break from what passes as the hubbub of the city. There are beaches, picnic tables and guided walks, as well as a fort at the south end of the island and a teahouse serving basic snacks and seafood. The island is currently being made into a provincial park to protect it from the rising tide of tourism. Boats depart the Halifax dock area from June to mid-September or you can take a boat from Dartmouth.  
north_america_hawaii_activities.html:  Activities  Hawaii is a fantastic place to enjoy watersports and recreational activities. Surfing is the king of sports, and Hawaii is deservedly renowned for its great waves. Beginners can learn the basics at Waikiki, then watch the professionals on Oahu's North Shore. Maui has become a windsurfing mecca, with the top international windsurfers heading for Hookipa Beach. Diving is good year-round and there are plenty of underwater caves, canyons, lava tubes, vertical walls and sunken ships to explore. Lanai, the sunken volcanic crater of Molokini, and Oahu and Kauai's northern coasts are all great diving areas. The Big Island's Kona Coast offers some of the world's best deep-sea fishing for Pacific blue marlin, yellowfin tuna and spearfish. And for those who want to keep their feet on solid ground, hiking opportunities include trails in the Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, Haleakala National Park and Hawaii's premier hike along Kauai's Na Pali Coast.  
north_america_hawaii_attractions.html:  Attractions  Oahu, nicknamed 'The Gathering Place', is the most populous, most developed and most well known of the Hawaiian Islands. The names and images most commonly conjured up by the mention of Hawaii are all here: Honolulu, Waikiki, Pearl Harbor and Sunset Beach. The state capital, Honolulu, is the major exit/entry point for travelers. Honolulu and Waikiki form a relentless urban area of freeways and high rises that resembles a hybrid of Miami Beach and downtown Tokyo. The vast majority of the island's tourist infrastructure is located in this area.  Outside the urban perimeter are all the beaches you could wish for, aqua-blue bays, fluted mountains and valleys carpeted with pineapple fields. The island's surf beaches (try Banzai Pipeline, Sunset Beach, Makaha) are legendary, but there is also great bodysurfing (Makapuu Beach, Waimea Bay), windsurfing (Kailua Bay), snorkeling (Hanauma Bay) and diving (Three Tables and nearby Shark's Cove).  
north_america_hawaii_environment.html:  Environment  The US state of Hawaii lies 1470 miles (2367 km) north of the equator and 2500 miles (4025 km) southwest of the nearest continental land mass, North America. The six main islands are part of a 128-island archipelago stretching 1523 miles (2452 km) from Kure Atoll in the northwest to the Big Island in the southwest. The main islands include Oahu, and the Neighbor Islands of Maui, Kauai, the Big Island (Hawaii), Molokai and Lanai. The islands are the tips of massive mountains, created by a crack in the earth's mantle which has been spewing molten rock for 25 million years. The Big Island, Hawaii's southernmost, is still in the birthing process. Its most active volcano, Kilauea, has pumped out more than two billion cubic yards of lava in the past 12 years.  The native flora and fauna species of these isolated islands evolved with limited competition and few predators, so has fared particularly badly against more aggressive species introduced by early Polynesian settlers and Westerners. The islands are home to thousands of species, but of the 2400 native plant species remaining, almost half are endangered. It's a happier story in the sea. Hawaiian monk seals, dolphins and whales are year-round residents, though it's the huge, migrating humpback whales that everyone wants to see. Hawaii has only two national parks - Hawaii Volcanoes National Park and Haleakala National Park.  The climate in Hawaii is fantastic. It's balmy and warm, with northeasterly trade winds prevailing most of the year. Near the coast, average highs are a pleasant 80 F (27 C), and the difference between summer and winter average temperatures is a meager five or 10 degrees. The rainiest period is between December and March. In general, the driest, sunniest conditions and the calmest waters are on the southwesterly, or leeward, side of the islands. Conversely, the northeasterly, or windward, side of the islands receive decent rainfalls: Hilo, the rainiest city in the USA, is on the windward side of the Big Island.  
north_america_hawaii_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Conditions of entry are the same as those for the USA. Most visitors require a visa. However, Canadians need only proof of citizenship and citizens of the UK, New Zealand, Japan, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland can stay up to 90 days without a visa.Health Risks: Leptospirosis, sunburn, jellyfishTime: UTC minus 10 hoursElectricity: 110/120V, 60HzWeights & measures: ImperialTourism: 6.5 million visitors per year When to Go  Although Hawaii's busiest tourist season is during winter (December to February), this has more to do with the weather elsewhere, since many visitors are snowbirds escaping cold winters back home. Average temperatures differ very little from winter to summer. June through October is the hottest period, while rainfall is heaviest between December and March - neither extreme is worth worrying over. Hotel prices are lowest between April and mid-December.  If you're a surfer, you won't want to miss the Christmas-time action around Oahu's North Shore, but if windsurfing or diving is more your thing, you'll find the waters at their calmest at the height of summer (July and August).     Events  With its multitude of cultures and permanently good weather, Hawaii always has something to celebrate. Some of the events to look out for include: the Merrie Monarch Festival (Hawaii's biggest hula competition, April); Lei Day (lei-making competitions, May); King Kamehameha Day (state holiday with parades, June);  Aloha Week(celebration with parades, cultural events, canoe races and Hawaiian music, September); and the Quicksilver/Eddie Aikau Memorial Big Wave Classic(surf event held when wave heights exceed 20ft/6m, December).    
north_america_hawaii_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Secret Beach is a gorgeous, 'undiscovered,' golden beach, backed by cliffs and jungle-like woods. It's popular with Kauai's 'alternative' community and nude sunbathers. The beach is near Kalihiwai, on Kauai's northern coast, but it's hard to find and requires navigating a dirt road and following a walking trail through jungle growth and ironwood trees. If you want to get away from it all, it's worth the effort in summer when swimming and snorkeling conditions are safe.  
north_america_honolulu_activities.html:  Activities  Honolulu's beaches are good for swimming year round, though the surf can get rough from June to August. If crashing waves are what brought you here, the area boasts hundreds of surfing locales, the most famous of which line Oahu's North Coast. Boogie boarding is the scene stealer at Kapahulu Groin in Waikiki, while the most popular bodysurfing breaks are at Sandy Beach Park and Makapuu Beach Park in southeastern Oahu.  The best spot for snorkeling close to Waikiki Beach is Sans Souci Beach, east of the resorts. Hanauma Bay in southeastern Oahu is better still. Oahu's best dive sites are between Hanauma Bay and Honolulu; the optimum time to explore them is between December and March. Windsurfers flock to Fort DeRussy Beach, at the western end of Waikiki.  The trail to the top of Diamond Head is a favorite route for hiking, as are the Manoa Falls Trail and the Tantalus and Makiki Valley network of trails, about 2 miles (3.2km) north of downtown Honolulu. Running and jogging are ridiculously popular, especially in the Kapiolani and Ala Moana parks, both near Waikiki.  
north_america_honolulu_attractions.html:  Attractions  The largest tourist destination in Hawaii, Waikiki is a long stretch of picture-perfect white-sand beach just southeast of downtown Honolulu. Its shores are lined with swanky high-rise hotels set against the scenic backdrop of Diamond Head. On any given day, the tiny area is thronged with package tourists from Japan and North America: 65,000 of them on average, in addition to some 25,000 residents. It boasts more than 30,000 hotel rooms; close to 1000 restaurants, bars and clubs; and more shops, shams and shysters than anyone cares to count.  If you've come to Hawaii for the luaus, hula lessons and lazy days on the beach, you'll hit the motherlode in Waikiki. But independent travelers needn't be discouraged - if you're one of those with less packagable predilections, you'll be happy to find activities such as outrigger canoe clubs and Japanese tea ceremonies to distract you from the masses. And there's always the natural beauty of the area, with its spectacular orange sunsets, bath-warm waters and night skies overrun with stars.  The 2-mile (3.5km) stretch of white sand that runs from the Hilton Hawaiian Village to Kapiolani Beach Park is commonly called Waikiki Beach. Although it teems midday with beach boys and betties, sunrise strolls here are downright meditative. By midmorning, the surfers, sailors and swimmers begin to amass, and by noon it's a challenge to get to the water without stepping on somebody. Fronting the Hilton, Kahanamoku Beach is one of the calmer swimming areas, ironically named after one of Hawaii's wildest native sons, Duke Kahanamoku, a local swimmer and surfer who won the 1912 Olympic 100m freestyle. At the southern end of Waikiki Beach, boogie boarders cluster at Kapahulu Groin, delighting onlookers with their daredevil wave riding.  Away from the waves, Kapiolani Park contains the Waikiki Aquarium, the Honolulu Zoo, a bandstand and hula show grounds. It's at the Diamond Head end of Waikiki and was a gift to the Hawaiian people from their last king, David Kalakaua.  Waikiki's Hawaiian-style entertainment ranges from Polynesian extravaganzas, with beating drums and hula dancers, to mellow duos jamming on ukuleles or slack-key guitars. Duke's Canoe Club is the most popular venue for contemporary Hawaiian music, while any of the big resorts can provide you with the other stuff. The area around the hotels is the best place to look for nightclubs and bars. Honolulu's gay scene is focused on the venues along Kuhio Ave between Kalaimoku and Kaiolu Sts.  
north_america_honolulu_facts.html:  When to Go  Honolulu is a great place to visit any time of year. Although Hawaii's busiest tourist season is during winter (December to February), this has more to do with the weather elsewhere, since many visitors are snowbirds escaping cold winters back home. Average temperatures differ very little from winter to summer. June through October is the hottest period, while rainfall is heaviest between December and March - neither extreme is worth worrying over. Daily temperatures in Honolulu average a high of 84 F (29 C) and a low of 70 F (22 C). Hotel prices are lowest between April and mid-December.  If you're a surfer, you won't want to miss the Christmas-time action around Oahu's North Shore, but if windsurfing or diving is more your thing, you'll find the waters at their calmest at the height of summer (July and August).     Events  Hawaiians love to shake a leg, and you can join in at a large number of festivals and events. New Year's Eve is jump-started with 'explosive' street parties and parades in Honolulu, as is Chinese New Year in late January or early February. The Japanese community shines throughout February with the Cherry Blossom Festival, then the Irish get their turn with a Waikiki St Patrick's Day parade on 17 March. One of Honolulu's quirkier festivals, the International Bed Race, sees some offbeat four-wheeling in late April. All Hawaiians get leid on 1 May, Lei Day, and again on 11 June, King Kamehameha Day - the latter is a state holiday.  Honolulu has two hula festivals in June and July: the King Kamehameha Hula & Chant Competition and the Prince Lot Hula festival. In August, the Hawaiian Slack-Key Guitar Festival and Ka Himeni Ana - an old-style Hawaiian singing contest - celebrate Hawaiian contributions to the world of music. Sports nuts get an eyeful with the Bankoh Kayak Challenge in May, the Transpacific Yacht Race in July, and major women's and men's outrigger canoe races in September and October, respectively. The Honolulu Marathon is run in mid-December, and the Aloha Bowl, a nationally televised collegiate football game, takes place on Christmas Day.  Several big surf-related blowouts take place every year, drawing the world's top wave riders to the beaches across the island. Exact dates depend on when and where the surf's up.    
north_america_honolulu_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Over 1.5 million people 'Remember Pearl Harbor' every year by visiting the USS Arizona Memorial, still responding to the rallying cry that ushered the US into WWII. The 185ft (55m) floating memorial perches directly over the Arizona, still lying in the shallow waters where it was sunk by Japanese fighter planes on 7 December 1941. The massive warship took a direct hit in the early morning fighting and sank within 9 minutes, taking with it 1177 sailors.  Today, the memorial is run by the National Parks Service, which maintains the onshore visitors center and its museum and theater. The park service's 75 minute program includes a documentary film on the attack, followed by a boat ride to the memorial. Everything is free.  The Arizona Memorial visitors center is off Hwy 99 (Kamehameha Hwy) on the Pearl Harbor Naval Base, about 9 miles (15km) west of Honolulu via H-1. Shuttle buses run from all the major Waikiki hotels.  
north_america_houston_activities.html:  Activities  Memorial Park and Hermann Park are the two main areas in the city for walking and running. If your heat tolerance is less than a lizard's, the huge oak trees of Main Street provide deep shade over the wide sidewalks. If you get too cooked, you can go ice skating at the Galleria Mall, a few miles west of downtown.  There's great cycling along Houston's many park trails, and the area's flat topography makes for easy pedaling - though in summer just sitting still can be trying. Run your own time trials on the banked track at the Alkek Velodrome, built in 1986 as a training track for the US Olympic cycling team. The open-air facility is in Cullen Park, 20 miles (32km) west of downtown.  
north_america_houston_attractions.html:  Attractions  The blocks northwest of Hermann Park, a few miles southwest of downtown, are home to Houston's major museums. Old trees overhang the streets, and some of the city's grandest old homes take shelter in the deep shade of over-hanging Spanish moss. Many restaurants and cafes line the district's streets.  Founded in 1900, the Museum of Fine Arts is the oldest art museum in Texas. The large collection features French Impressionists, American Modernists and Texan Postmodernists. The sculpture garden across the street contains works by Rodin and others.  Nothing stays put for long inside the stainless steel walls of the Contemporary Arts Museum. With no permanent collection, the museum presents 10 or more temporary shows a year. Travelers with inner or outer children in tow should visit the crayon-colored playground for the mind known as the Children's Museum of Houston. Adults should have no problem having fun watching the tots milk the mechanical cow.  The Holocaust Museum is an excellent though sobering memorial. 'Our destination was extermination,' says Houstonian holocaust survivor Siegi Izakson on one of the many videos shown at this excellent museum, opened in 1996. The permanent exhibition, housed in a black cylinder meant to evoke the ghastly image of a smokestack, traces the lives of European Jews from before WWII, through the holocaust and after the war as the survivors tried to rebuild their lives.  
north_america_houston_facts.html:  When to Go  Opinions vary, but many locals say late spring (April and May) and early summer (June and July) are the best times to come, as rainfall starts to taper off and the humidity isn't peaking. In July, the average daytime temperature is a sweltering 94 F (34 C), but humidity is at its lowest level of the year. Humidity is highest in October, when it can be 93% at the crack of dawn. If you want to catch the rodeo, plan on coming in late February or early March. Houston gets crowded during the many festivals and events in April.     Events  The Houston Livestock Show & Rodeo goes for 17 days from mid-February to March. Big name cowboys ride bulls and broncs in the Astrodome, followed by big name country music acts in the exhibit halls next door. This event is well worth seeking out if you want to two-step right into Texas culture. April's Houston International Festival is a multicultural celebration of food, art and music that lasts for 10 days beginning the third week of the month. Events are held all over the city and include the Houston International Film Festival. Also in April, the Westheimer Colony Arts Festival shows off the Montrose District at its flamboyant best, with blocks of booths selling arts, antiques, food and items that defy classification. There's usually a parade or two to keep the nipple-ringed residents amused. Dates vary and the event repeats in October.   Juneteenth is a multiday celebration around 19 June, the day in 1865 when word reached Texas that the slaves had been emancipated. Events include gospel and blues festivals and other celebrations of local African-American culture. Fiestas Patrias features a parade, ball and music celebrating Mexican Independence Day on 16 September.   Public Holidays: 1 January - New Year's Day 19 January - Confederate Heroes Day Third Monday in January - Martin Luther King Jr Day Third Monday in February - Presidents' Day 2 March - Texas Independence Day Late March or April - Easter 21 April - San Jacinto Day Last Monday in May - Memorial Day 19 June - Texas Emancipation Day 4 July - Independence Day 27 August - Lyndon Baines Johnson Day First Monday in September - Labor Day Second Monday in October - Columbus Day 11 November - Veterans' Day Fourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving 25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to HoustonTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_houston_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This huge and well-funded museum has to be seen to be believed. Run by an organization that trains funeral directors in everything from embalming to merchandising, the museum documents the vast industry that profits from the American way of death. There are dozens of hearses, including the ill-fated 1916 bus that tipped on a San Francisco hill and dumped the dearly departed on the mourners. The museum is located 15 miles (24km) north of downtown on I-45.  
north_america_juneau_activities.html:  Activities  Once through with downtown's sightseeing options, most visitors will be eager to embrace the outdoors, and Juneau doesn't disappoint. With a huge diversity of trails from beginners to you'd-really-better-know-what-you're-doing, it's perhaps one of the best areas for hiking in Alaska. There are also cold-water activities (besides cruises) on offer such paddling in sea kayaks. Guided daytrips or tours are available for those who just want to get their feet wet - or not, as it were. The city and surrounds have many bicycling paths, many of which are steep; mountain biking options are limited. Those with a rod and line can happily fish for salmon and halibut in the area's creeks. In the wintertime, there is skiing and snowshoeing to be had; try the meadows of Point Bridget State Park.  Travelers to the Southeast are often intrigued by the area's gold-rush history and want to try panning for gold; good creeks to try out are Bullion Creek in the Treadwell Mine area, Gold Creek by Last Chance Basin and Sheep Creek on Thane Rd. Gold pans are available at any hardware store in Juneau.  
north_america_juneau_attractions.html:  Attractions  On Friday evenings in the summer, musicians and other performers give free shows at this delightful waterfront park, which is good for a stroll and also a logical starting place for a city-center walk. Start at the park's kiosk, at the southern end of Egan Drive and get kitted up with a walking-tour map. It will lead you first to S Franklin St, a historical district that experienced renovation in 1985, when many of its early-1900s buildings underwent a major makeover into bars, gift shops and eateries. It's now a one-stop mob shop every time a cruise ship docks.  Among other attractions (some covered below), the tour also leads toward the Davis Log Cabin , which houses local relics and historical pieces, and then to the very unassuming state capitol, which may seem at first glance more like a high school than the Alaskan seat of government. Free tours are up for grabs.  
north_america_juneau_facts.html:  When to Go  Juneau is part of the coastal rain belt of the Tongass National Forest, but it isn't as wet as some other areas of the belt such as Ketchikan and Sitka. It has a relatively mild climate, and the average annual precipitation is 92in (234cm) in the downtown area and 52in (132cm) in the Mendenhall Valley. The average temperature from June to August is around 55 F (13 C), though in July it's 64 F (18 C) (often reaching 75-80 Fs/23-26 C). Don't come with high expectations, though, a good week during the summer will include three sunny days, two overcast ones and two when you need to pull your rain gear out or duck for cover.  Juneau isn't part of the 'midnight sun' club of northern Alaskan regions, but its summer days are much longer than those in the continental USA. The peak is reached on summer solstice, around June 21, with around 18 hours of daylight time.     Events  As the weather starts to thaw, the music heats up with the week-long Alaska Folk Festival in mid-April, when musicians from around Alaska take the stage. The tunes change slightly for the Juneau Jazz and Classics Festival in the third week of May. Gold Rush Days, a festival of logging and mining events, happens late June. The largest summer festivities, though, are saved up for the 4th of July, when celebrations include a parade, a carnival, fireworks and miles of outdoor meals.    
north_america_juneau_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The waterfront Auke Bay area, which has a small harbor and campground, is 12mi (19km) northwest of downtown and sits off the Glacier Highway. One of its worthwhile attractions is the Auke Bay Marine Lab, a research facility with a self-guided tour of displays and saltwater tanks. South of the lab on the banks of Auke Lake is the beautiful University of Alaska campus, which displays an interesting Northwest Coast Native art collection in its library. For those preferring culture of the outdoors variety, the islands in its saltwater bay are a great and not too difficult sea-kayaking daytrip. Camping is allowed on the islands, so paddlers can even turn the adventure into an overnight one.  
north_america_key_west_activities.html:  Activities  Probably the second-most popular activity in town (after bar hopping) is laying around on some peaceful (or not) stretch of sand. There are three city beaches on the southern side of the island: City Beach and Higgs Beach are more family-oriented, while Smathers Beach is popular with the jet skiing and parasailing vroom crowd.  The diving opportunities in Key West aren't as plentiful as in some of the more northern Keys, but they are definitely here. Most companies, many of which are located around Mallory Square, take you west, to sites including Barracuda, Boca Grande and Marquesas Keys. In some of the dive sites - especially around the Marquesas - non-divers can go along and snorkel.  Other outfitters can take you kayaking into Great White Heron or Key Deer Refuges, or on bicycling tours around the Keys, or you can just rent your own and give it a whirl. If you just need a little adrenaline, skydiving is an increasingly popular attraction.  
north_america_key_west_attractions.html:  Attractions  The site of Key West's nightly sunset celebrations, Mallory Square is a cobblestoned area at the northwestern end of town that overlooks the old boat harbor. Even if you're not up for the evening festivities, this is a great place to start your grand tour of the city, or pick up several souvenirs to commemorate your experience.  If none of the knick-knacks seem tempting, head down Duvall St and pick up a Hemingway Hammer (151-proof rum, banana and strawberry liquor, blackberry brandy and a dash of white rum) instead at Sloppy Joe's Bar, the Hemingway Hangout of record. Three blocks away and almost as famous, Jimmy Buffet's Maragaritaville Cafe serves cheeseburgers in paradise.  Hangover-free attractions abound as well. Audubon House wasn't built until after the famous painter visited in the early 1800s, but has a nice collection of antiquities and historical anecdotes, plus simply fabulous gardens. Jessie Porter's Heritage House & Robert Frost Cottage is a Caribbean-colonial showpiece with small museums to those two artists.  
north_america_key_west_environment.html:  Environment  The Florida Keys boast unique ecosystems just packed with endangered species: the tiny Key deer, manatees galore, and loggerhead, leatherback and green sea turtles are just a few of the animals teetering on the brink. Driving and boating carefully, helps protects these amazing species.  Hammocks (tracts of hardwood forest) grow on land adjacent to the water, and support such native flora as gumbo limbos, which have red, peeling bark, and lignum vitae, one of the hardest woods in the world. Other habitats include freshwater marshes, home to razor-sharp sawgrass; swamps, favored by bald cypress and their alien-like 'knees'; wet and dry prairies, dominated by herb bogs and wire grasses; and upland wooded areas, covered with pines, oaks, and shrubs like wax myrtle and gallbery. The warm climate fosters many troublesome exotics such as melaleuca, Brazilian pepper and Australian pine.  Offshore, the Florida's famed coral reefs are the largest in North America and the third largest in the world. The fans and whips found here are unique to Florida. Global warming has led to the bleaching (killing) of many coral reefs here, as it has all over the world, while agricultural runoff, full of phosphates and nitrates, have disturbed the ecological balance further. Don't touch the coral, but take plenty of pictures - these reefs probably won't see another century intact.  
north_america_key_west_facts.html:  When to Go  'Just another day in paradise' is probably the best way to describe Key West's weather from October to June: It rarely gets below 65 F (18 C) or above 90 F (32 C). This makes it a summertime weekend destination for overheated Miamians, and a year-round attraction for the rest of the world's population, all of whom seem to be here during the tourist season (December through to April).  Hurricane season, from June to October, lets budget travelers will enjoy lower costs and less crowded beaches, but just remember that one little hurricane can ruin your whole vacation. Of course, an emergency evacuation across 159mi (256km) of flimsy-looking bridges has great 'amusing anecdote' potential.     Events  Every evening is an event in Key West, as the fabled sunset celebration sees cobblestoned Mallory Square come alive nightly with jugglers, acrobats, beds-of-nails-lying-downers and hoop-jumping cats. Though cheesy, this is more like Stilton than bland cheddar. For a more concentrated Key West experience, come down December 31 for the New Year's Eve festivities; in March for the Conch Shell Blowing Contest, a 40-year tradition (it's more difficult than it looks); late April for the 10-day Conch Republic Celebration, in honor of the short-lived but festive independence of this would-be Caribbean nation; and late October for the Haunting of Fort Zachary Taylor, when the US Coast Guard gets the 'Isle of Bones' spruced up for a scary historical experience, followed by Fantasy Fest, Key West's massive Halloween bash.  Other classic Key West events include PrideFest in June, when the island - already a top destination for gay and lesbian party people from all over - hosts a fabulous party. Bearded gents won't want to miss July's Hemingway Days Festival, topped off with an author lookalike contest, while kitsch connoisseurs simply must experience November's Pirates in Paradise festival, when locals transform the old boat harbor into a rollicking rumrunner reenactment. Yo ho ho!    
north_america_key_west_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track   The Dry Tortugas (pronounced 'tor-TOO-guzz'), a tiny archipelago of seven islands about 69 miles southwest of Key West, was first 'developed' 300 years after its discovery by Juan Ponce de Le n, who named the area for the hawksbill, green, leatherback and loggerhead turtles that roam around the islands. Sailors later changed the name to Dry Tortugas for the obvious reason that there's no fresh water here. In 1846, construction began on Fort Jefferson: the USA saw the wisdom in a fortification there to protect and control traffic into the Gulf of Mexico. A federal garrison during the Civil War, Fort Jefferson was also a prison for Union deserters and for at least four people, among them Dr Samuel Mudd, arrested for complicity in the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. The fort was established as a national monument in 1935 by President Roosevelt, and in 1992, the elder President Bush showed great character by signing legislation that changed the name from Fort Jefferson National Monument to Dry Tortugas National Park.  Today the park is open for day trips or overnight camping. It's a fascinating place, and the sparkling water offers excellent snorkeling and diving opportunities. Sleeping over is a unique experience: so close to the hubbub of Key West, but blissfully peaceful. The Yankee Freedom is a fast ferry that runs between Garden Key and Land's End Marina at the foot of Margaret St in Key West. Key West Seaplane Service will also get you here.  
north_america_las_vegas_activities.html:  Activities  If you can tear yourself away from the gaming tables, the rough-hewn areas around Las Vegas offer great hiking. Red Rock Canyon, about 20 miles (30km) west of the city, has multicolored sandstone scenery. Toiyabe National Forest, further west, features 12,000ft (3700m) Charleston Peak and trails that wind through pine forests and desert scrub. Camping is allowed.  For boating and water-skiing, smear on the sunscreen, slither into your wetsuit and head over to Lake Mead, about 30mi (50km) east of Las Vegas. You can even scuba dive here. The lake's 500mi (800km) of shoreline offer plenty of sunbathing spots. Skiers can thrill to the downhill at the Lee Canyon Ski Area on Charleston Peak in the Toiyabe National Forest, about 80mi (130km) northwest of Las Vegas.  Urbanites can tenpin bowl - it's a huge pastime in Las Vegas. There are dozens of golf courses in Las Vegas Valley, most within 10mi (16km) of The Strip. Unless you can pony up US$30,000 up front plus US$350 a month for membership of a private club, you'll be playing at a public course. Reserve your tee-off time a week in advance.  
north_america_las_vegas_attractions.html:  Attractions  The blocks around the intersection of Fremont and Main Streets in downtown Las Vegas are known as Glitter Gulch. The first neon sign in the city went up here in 1929; now millions of lightbulbs and miles of neon tubing bathe the Gulch in perpetual daylight. This is where you'll find Vegas Vic and his pal Sassy Sal - two of the best-known neon icons in the country. Some of the city's most famous casinos are in the Gulch, including the Golden Nugget and the Gold Spike, as are most of its strip clubs. Aside from slowly cruising down Fremont Street and basking in the multicolored glow, there's little to do apart from gamble, drink or watch naked people slither around poles. Shopping consists mainly of souvenirs.  The remains of Old Las Vegas Mormon Fort State Historic Park may pale in comparison to nearby Glitter Gulch, but this is where it all started. Beginning in the 1850s, this adobe quadrangle provided refuge for travelers along the Mormon Trail between Salt Lake City, Utah, and San Bernardino, in southern California. Some of the original walls are still standing, and displays of artifacts and photographs illustrate mid-19th century life on the frontier. There's an ongoing archaeological dig outside. The fort is a mile north of downtown.  
north_america_las_vegas_facts.html:  When to Go  You should factor at least two criteria into your travel plans; the weather and conventions. The summers are hot and the winters are cool, making spring and fall the best times to visit. The daily high averages around 100 F (38 C) from June to September, and around 55 F (13 C) from December to January; the rest of the year is temperate. It's pretty dry most of the time, but thunderstorms are most common in the summer (June to August) and can cause dangerous flash floods. February, March and November are busy convention months, with over 200,000 conventioneers in town over each of these months. Not only are colossal crowds at these times annoying but they're costly; hotels jack up room rates and buffet prices when the Buggy Whip Manufacturers and other large groups come to town. You'll probably want to miss New Year's Eve as well, and avoid the week before Christmas when the city's revues are shut down. Short-stay visitors should know that hotel rates are typically 10-20% lower from Sunday through Thursday.     Events  It's hard to outdo the nonstop party that is Las Vegas, but the city does have a few annual events and festivals. Locals wear the green for the St Patrick's Day parade in March. It's chaps and chili during the Helldorado Days Rodeo & Western Festival in May and the National Finals Rodeo in December. October brings both the Jaycee State Fair and the Cashman Field PGA Invitational Golf Tournament.   Public holidays January 1 - New Year's Day third Monday in January - Martin Luther King Jr's Birthday third Monday in February - Presidents' Day last Monday in May - Memorial Day July 4 - Independence Day first Monday in September - Labor Day second Monday in October - Columbus Day November 11 - Veterans Day fourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving Day December 25 - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to Las VegasTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_las_vegas_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Few dams are artistic achievements, but Hoover Dam is an architectural gem, with a simple form and Art Deco embellishments and design. The sensuous geometry of the 726ft (220m) high concrete wall contrasts sharply with the rugged red rock of the canyon walls. Since the September 11 terrorist attacks against the USA only dam personnel are allowed to enter the structure. Everyone else is limited to seeing a movie on the history of the dam and exhibits on its construction and inner workings in the visitor center.  Stretching to the north and east of the dam is the artificial body of water it created: the 110mi (180km) long Lake Mead. It's a good spot for boating, water-skiing, fishing and even scuba diving. Hoover Dam is an hour's drive southeast of downtown Las Vegas, from where several companies offer bus tours.  It's less than an hour's drive along Hwy 95/93 from Las Vegas to Lake Mead and Hoover Dam.  
north_america_los_angeles_activities.html:  Activities  If skimpy bikinis and fast-food picnics aren't to your taste, the northern end of Santa Monica Bay is a welcome sanctuary from LA's babe-watch scene. Beach-lovers can indulge in coastal hikes, tide-pool gazing, swimming, surfing, diving, fishing and (clothing-optional) sunbathing. Rock climbers test themselves on the cliffs at Point Dume, while Escondido Beach has the best diving in the bay.  There's a whale-watching platform at nearby Westward Beach and a nature trail that leads to Zuma Beach County Park, a couple of miles to the north. Zuma is the largest and sandiest of LA's county-owned beaches, with rough surf and plenty of oily hardbodies.  LA's southern beaches include Manhattan Beach, jampacked on summer days with surfers, volleyball players and the American-as-apple-pie local residents - it's arguably the nearest thing you'll find to the 'California Dream.' Just south of Manhattan Beach, Redondo is one of LA's more intriguing beaches. At its northern end is King Harbor, a small-boat marina and fishermen's haven. Huntington Beach, just southeast of Long Beach and northwest of Newport, is a favorite of the surfer set.  If you've heard it once, you've heard it a thousand times: LA is a city where you can surf at the beach in the morning and ski in the snowfields in the afternoon - as long as you get up early and have a warm wetsuit. The main area for downhill skiing is Big Bear in the San Bernardino Mountains, 100mi (161km) northeast of LA. The season lasts from mid-December until March or April and, contrary to the cliche, the skiing is generally only good in the morning. Groomed runs and moguls are excellent, but don't expect much powder. The best part about Big Bear is the weather - sunshine 90% of the time and T-shirt temperatures in spring.  Shopping, star-spotting and rollercoaster screaming are LA's prime activities, but if you're keen for something a little more outdoorsy, LA has plenty to offer. Urban hiking is your best bet, but if you need to get space and a bit of greenery, LA's surrounding mountains are good day-hike destinations. Try the rugged Santa Monica Mountains or the Topanga State Park, both inland from Malibu, or Griffith Park, a few miles northwest of downtown.  Although smoggy LA is not particularly inviting to cyclists, the county has more than 200mi (320km) of bike trails. Best of the bunch is the South Bay Bicycle Trail, stretching 20mi (35km) from Santa Monica to Torrance Beach.  Prefer sitting on your butt and watching other people exert themselves? The LA Dodgers baseball team plays from April to October at Dodger Stadium, just north of downtown. To check out basketball greats the LA Lakers, head to the Staples Center near the Convention Center, southeast of downtown, during the winter months. UCLA's college basketball team, the Bruins, is one of the best in the country and well worth a look.  
north_america_los_angeles_attractions.html:  Attractions  Just as you'd imagine, LA's downtown area is framed by freeways rather than any particular geographic boundary. The Hollywood Fwy lies to the north, the Harbor Fwy to the west, the Santa Monica Fwy to the south and a bird's nest of other freeways intertwine beyond the Los Angeles River to the east. In the thick of all this concrete and congestion, however, intrepid urbanites will find a number of pockets worth exploring.  Extending eight blocks east to west, the city's Civic Center is America's largest complex of government buildings after Washington, DC. It contains the most important of LA's city, county, state and federal office buildings, including the Criminal Courts Building, where the infamous OJ Simpson murder trial took place in 1995, and the 1928 City Hall, which served as the Daily Planet building in the TV show Superman and the police station in Dragnet. North across Temple St from City Hall is the excellent LA Children's Museum.  A few blocks east of the Civic Center, El Pueblo de Los Angeles is a 44-acre (18ha) state historic park commemorating the site where the city was founded in 1781 and preserving many of its earliest buildings. Its central attraction for most visitors is Olvera Street, a narrow, block-long passageway that was restored as an open-air Mexican marketplace in 1930. In addition to its restaurants, Olvera St teems with the shops and stalls of vendors selling all manner of Mexican crafts, from leather belts and bags to handmade candles and colorful pi atas.  Directly across from El Pueblo is Union Station, one of LA's oft-overlooked architectural treasures. Built in 1939 in Spanish Mission style with Moorish and Moderne details, it's worth a stop even if you aren't hopping a train. A few blocks north of the station, the 16 square blocks of Chinatown comprise the social and cultural nucleus of LA's 200,000 Chinese residents. Here, the businesses of traditional acupuncturists and herbalists mingle with scores of restaurants and shops whose inventories vary from cheap kitsch to exquisite silk clothing, inlaid furniture, antique porcelain and intricate religious art.  Immediately southeast of the Civic Center is Little Tokyo. First settled by early Japanese immigrants in the 1880s and thriving by the 1920s, the neighborhood was effectively decimated by the anti-Japanese hysteria of the WWII years. Thanks in part to an injection of investment from the 'old country,' Little Tokyo is again the locus for LA's Japanese population of nearly a quarter million. Among its streets and outdoor shopping centers, you'll find sushi bars, bento houses and traditional Japanese gardens. Housed in a historic Buddhist temple, the Japanese American National Museum exhibits objects and art that relate the history of Japanese emigration to, and life in, the USA.  Just southwest of the Civic Center is the Museum of Contemporary Art, designed by Japanese architect Arata Isozaki. It houses what is considered one of the world's most important collection of paintings, sculptures and photographs from the 1940s to the present. Just west of MOCA is The Westin Bonaventure hotel, a quintet of cylindrical glass towers that are instantly recognizable to any regular moviegoer.  South of the Civic Center, LA's Hispanic shopping district is a deliciously cluttery mix of cheap restaurants, frilly wedding dress shops and blaring Latin pop. For a shocking contrast to the bustling street scene, step inside the 1893 Bradbury Building, where a skylit, five-story atrium is surrounded by Belgian marble, Mexican tiles, ornate French wrought-iron railings, glazed brick walls, oak paneling and a pair of open-cage elevators. You've seen it in detail if you've seen the movies Blade Runner or Wolf. Across the street from the Bradbury, between Broadway and Hill St, Grand Central Market is LA's oldest (1917) and largest open-air food market.  
north_america_los_angeles_facts.html:  When to Go  Despite its desert climate, most of Los Angeles is protected from extremes of temperature and humidity by the mountain ranges to its north and east. August and September are the hottest months, January and February the coolest and wettest. Offshore breezes keep the beach communities cooler in summer and warmer in winter than those further inland, particularly the San Fernando Valley, which is the hottest area in summer and the coldest in winter. The average LA temperature is around 70 F (21 C), though smog-shrouded summer days can get well over 90 F (32 C), while winter temperatures around 55 F (12 C) are not uncommon.  There really aren't any seasonal restrictions on a visit to LA. If you go in summer, you'll see the beaches at their liveliest, with all the Baywatch types flexing their pecs and displaying their implants. If the thought of wall-to-wall toned bodies makes you a tad uneasy, try spring (April to May) or fall (September to November), when the crowds are smaller and the prices lower.     Events  Angelenos love to show off, and the city has no shortage of opportunities for them to do so. Every New Year's Day the Tournament of Roses Parade - marching bands, celebrities and flower-coated floats - makes its way down Pasadena's Colorado Blvd. The Rose Bowl college football championship is played later the same day. A parody of the Tournament of Roses - the Doo Dah Parade - makes its way down Colorado Blvd in November, on the Saturday after Thanksgiving.  February is African American History Month, with films, lectures, exhibits and performances across the county. LA's night of nights, the Academy Awards, is held in March. Cinco de Mayo, marking Mexico's victory over the French army at the Battle of Puebla (1862), is celebrated on May 5 with plenty of south-of-the-border style festivities.  In June, the Gay & Lesbian Pride Celebration is marked with a flamboyant parade down Santa Monica Blvd. The Summer Pops Festival runs from July through September at the Hollywood Bowl, and the International Surf Festival hits the waves of Manhattan, Hermosa and Redondo Beaches in August.   Los Angeles County Fair, held in Pomona in September, is the largest county fair in the world, with music, sideshows, rides and other country-style delights. For those who prefer not to get their glad rags grubby, October's AFI-LA International Film Festival is one of the country's biggest, with more than 75 features from around the world.  For a bit of contrast, check out the Hollywood Christmas Parade, where movie and TV stars join Santa in a typically flashy parade, then join in Las Posadas, candle-lit processions that relive Mary and Joseph's journey to Bethlehem and honor the Christ child.   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day third Monday in January - Martin Luther King Jr Day third Monday in February - President's Day March/April - Easter last Monday in May - Memorial Day 4 July - Independence Day first Monday in September - Labor Day second Monday in October - Columbus Day 11 November - Veteran's Day fourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving 25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to Los AngelesTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_los_angeles_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If lining up to have your photo taken with an acned teen in a mouse suit isn't your idea of fun, you might prefer Knott's Berry Farm, a more bucolic theme park 4mi (6km) northwest of Disneyland. Originally a fried chicken dinner and berry eatery, the Knotts set up a little Old West display to keep the diners entertained. The place has grown a bit since then, but gunfightin' and gold pannin' are still all the rage. There's also a Mexican-themed Fiesta Village, Camp Snoopy for the littlies and plenty of chicken-regurgitating rides. You can get here by bus, hotel shuttle or by car on I-5 and Hwy 91.  Rollercoaster purists will bypass both Disneyland and Knott's for the greater glories of Six Flags Magic Mountain. Magic Mountain has more rides than Greyhound, with all the joys of spiral hairpin drops, boomerang turns, zero-gravity spins and waterfall plummets. Magic Mountain's 100 rides are in Valencia, an hour's drive northwest of downtown off of I-5.  
north_america_marthas_vineyard_activities.html:  Activities  For those on a short visit, a 2-1/2-hour island-wide organized bus tour takes in all the major towns, stops for 30 minutes at Aquinnah, and provides a good overview of the island. Organized boat tours are also available, from a small 50-foot wooden sloop to larger vessels.   Cycling is a perfect way to explore the island and bicycles and mopeds can be rented in the main towns. The dense 4400 acre (1760ha) Manuel F Correllus State Forest occupies a huge chunk of the island's mid-section and has plenty of walking and biking trails. Other places to hike or bike include Cedar Tree Neck Sanctuary, West Tisbury and the 600 acre (240ha) Long Point Wildlife Refuge which also has a few short trails and bird watching possibilities.  Water-based activities are a cinch to come by including good old-fashioned beach swimming, kayaking, windsurfing, sailing, water-skiing, wakeboarding, kneeboarding, parasailing, jet-skiing and inner-tubing.   Sailing and fishing charters can be arranged, horseback ridingis popular and for those who need to whack a ball, golfing and tennis are within striking distance.  
north_america_marthas_vineyard_attractions.html:  Attractions  To the extent that the island has a commercial center, Vineyard Haven is it - a harbor town where the ferries come and go year-round and with a permanent community making it the place to stay in the off-season. Although the most mellow of the islands' three principal towns it's also the most 'real'. Vineyard Haven was incorporated in 1671, although virtually every building in the heart town burned to the ground in the great fire of 1883. The town's backstreets, especially William St, are lined with sturdy sea captains' homes. Today the town still draws its energy from the waterfront. You'll see schooners and sloops sharing the harbor with barges, ferries and the second largest collection of traditionally built wooden sailboats to be found anywhere in the country, (only Camden, Maine is thought to have more). For sightseeing junkies there are a couple of attractions worth seeing. Built in 1817, the West Chop Lighthouse was the island's last manned light and is at the northern end of town. Chicama Vineyard, just outside of town, does a fairly credible job of making wine and it seems only right to sample a drop from a working vineyard while on the Vineyard.  
north_america_marthas_vineyard_environment.html:  Environment  Martha's Vineyard, the largest island in New England, lies 5mi (8km) off the coast of Cape Cod. Shaped roughly like a triangle with its southern base the straight shore, Martha's Vineyard is only 9mi (14.5km) wide and 23mi (37km) long, with a total land area of about 100 sq mi (259 sq km) and over 100mi (161km) of tidal shoreline.  The islands and the surrounding Cape are described geologically as 'terminal moraine'. They are what remains of the grit heaved and dumped by glacial motion some 12,000 years ago, leaving a myriad of 'kettle ponds' - the steep-sided freshwater pools that formed when sharp fragments of the glacier were left to melt in place. The island is really lots of sand without any bedrock and the outlines are still subject to constant change and erosion.  The island's modern landscape has changed over the last century as virtually all the trees now represent new growth. Most of the lumber was plundered by the settlers and if the late 19th-century recession hadn't happened there would be little but grasses left growing. The ocean winds, predominantly those out of the southwest, also affect the island. Harbor towns and down-island areas enjoy a canopy of trees, while the more exposed portions of the island consist primarily of grassy sand plains and moors. Watch out for rampantly growing 'poison ivy' across the island.  
north_america_marthas_vineyard_facts.html:  When to Go  High season on Martha's Vineyard extends from Memorial through Labor Day or in some cases Columbus Day. If you enjoy the excitement and activity of the summer season then this is a good time to visit with everything open for business, but be prepared for high prices, crowds and traffic. If you want to miss the peak season brouhaha then consider the shoulder seasons of spring and fall when crowds are fewer, most facilities are still open and rates are lower. Holiday festivities make the island a magical, if somewhat chilly and damp, place to be although many shops, hotels and restaurants are closed for business.  Summer and winter temperatures are milder on the island than on the mainland, due in part to the moderating ocean breezes, and although there are plenty of beach days to go around, rain or fog is not an uncommon part of even a summer visit.     Events  There are many special events and festivals that see an influx of visitors to the island but some are worth a special mention. The Chilmark Flea Market, held every Wednesday and Saturday during the summer, sees hoards of locals and visitors converging to uncover handmade quilts, furniture, photography prints, jewelry, lanterns and more. Hosted in early July, the Edgartown Regatta is one of the premier yacht racing series on the East Coast, and a highly social event. The early August Possible Dreams Auction, usually held in Edgartown, is a unique event that sees resident island celebrities give (and bid) their all to support the endeavors of Martha's Vineyard Community Services.  The Agricultural Society Livestock Show and Fair, held in mid-August in West Tisbury, is a classic old-time country carnival, with music and woodsman's competitions, horse pulls, livestock and dog shows and arts and crafts from around the island. The exact date of the late-August Illumination Night in Oak Bluffs is kept secret till a week before it becomes obvious. After residents gather for a community sing-a-long, the town shuts off all electrical lights and the eldest resident lights a Japanese lantern. When the rest of the Methodist Campmeeting Association follows suit, an eerie glow illuminates the neighborhood. Summer's last blast can be had at the Oak Bluffs Fireworks and Band Concert during late August.  From mid-September to mid-October the region's premier fishing derby, The Martha's Vineyard Striped Bass and Bluefish Derby, is a month-long classic contest and is one of the country's oldest. In late November Edgartown hosts a Fall Festival with family activities at the Felix Neck Wildlife Sanctuary, including a treasure hunt, wildlife walks, and wreath-making. On New Year's Eve the two island towns of Vineyard Haven and Edgartown mount their own Boston-inspired First Night jamborees featuring local artists and performers.    
north_america_marthas_vineyard_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  A tiny island, Chappaquiddick, or Chappy, is an adored part of Martha's Vineyard, probably because visitors, especially day-trippers, mostly overlook it. There are very few houses on the island, no shops or eateries and little to do except appreciate the natural beauty and pristine beaches. The main attractions are the 500acre (202ha) Cape Pogue Wildlife Refuge, (complete with a remote lighthouse), and the 200acre (81ha) Wasque Reservation, both unspoiled and unfrequented stretches of sand. Naturalist-led expeditions of Cape Pogue and its lighthouse are available from the Trustees of the Reservations. In addition to its beautiful open space, the island contains the meditative 14acre (5.6ha) Mytoi Japanese garden.  Chappaquiddick is also widely and infamously known for the tragic incident that involved US Senator Edward Kennedy in 1969, when a passenger in the car he was driving died as the car plunged off a small wooden bridge. This narrow spit of land is within 200yd (183m) of Edgartown, and can only be reached via a five-minute car/bike/passenger ferry from Edgartown center. The ferry leaves whenever there are people who want to go; that way, it's always 'on time'.  
north_america_maui_activities.html:  Activities  People come to Maui for the beaches and watersports - the island has some of Hawaii's (and the world's) best windsurfing and boardsurfing, as well as plenty of good swimming, snorkeling and bodysurfing. For a quiet swim, try Slaughterhouse Beach in the north. Surfing is good on the windward northern and eastern coasts, with Hookipa Beach near Paia arguably the most consistent spot. Maalaea Pipeline, on the southern side of Maalaea Bay, is one of the world's top 10 breaks, and Honolua Bay on the northwestern coast is also excellent. Expert windsurfers absolutely must go to Hookipa Beach. Spreckelsville in Paia is good for advanced windsurfers, while Kanaha in Kahului is a top beginners' spot.  The best diving destination is the sunken volcanic crater of nearby Molokini, where the fish are tame and the water is clear, although the less-crowded neighboring island of Lanai is also great. For beach snorkeling, the easily accessible Black Rock at Kaanapali is good, and Kapalua Bay is calm year round.  Although the water's the place to be on Maui, there's also a fair bit to do inland. Haleakala National Park has some extraordinary hiking through its volcanic crater, and the whole island is crisscrossed with nature walks. Haleakala is also popular with horseback riders, and cyclists get a buzz from coasting 38 miles (60km) down the steep-sided mountain. Real keensters can hang-glide from Haleakala to the coast, a scenic descent of nearly 10,000ft (3000m).  
north_america_maui_attractions.html:  Attractions  In ancient times Lahaina was the Maui chiefs' royal court, and the bread(fruit) basket of West Maui. Kamehameha I used Lahaina as his base, and for a time it was the capital of the newly unified Hawaiian islands. The whaling years reached their peak in the 1840s, when hundreds of whalers pulled into port to visit the town's dance halls, bars and brothels. These days the streets are jammed with tourists, and the old wooden shops that once housed saloons and provision stores are now crammed with boutiques and galleries. If you're expecting something quaint and romantic, you'll be disappointed: Lahaina is abuzz with commercial activity. But the scenery is pretty, there are soft breezes off the water and you'll get fine sunset views of Lanai.  Lahaina's top sightseeing spots are its 19th-century historical sites. The Old Courthouse, built in 1859, is now home to a gallery exhibiting work by Lahaina artists. The Baldwin House, the oldest building in Lahaina, was built in 1834. Wo Hing Temple, on Front St, was built in 1912 by Lahaina's Chinese community. It's now a museum of Chinese-Hawaiian artifacts. An attached theater shows films taken in Hawaii by Thomas Edison at the turn of the century. Hale Paahao Prison, built in 1852 by convicts, is now a museum dedicated to describing life in the slammer in the 19th century. At Hale Pai, where Hawaii's first printing press was built to churn out the Good Book for wayward heathens, you can see early books or print your own page on a replica press.  
north_america_maui_environment.html:  Environment  At 728 sq mi (1886 sq km), Maui is the second-largest Hawaiian island. The landmass originally arose from the ocean floor as two separate volcanoes, but lava flows and soil erosion eventually built up a valley-like isthmus between the two, linking them in their present form. The flat strip of interconnecting land provides a fertile setting for fields of sugarcane and has given Maui the nickname 'The Valley Island.'  Maui's larger (and younger) eastern side is dominated by 10,023ft (3007m) Haleakala, the world's largest dormant volcano. West Maui is overlooked by the West Maui Mountains. The rainy northeast sides of both mountain masses are cut with deep ravines and valleys leading down to the coast. White-sand beaches run along much of the island's western shoreline.  Haleakala is the place to spot the endangered nene (Hawaiian goose) and rare silversword plant. Equally endangered are Maui's six native birds: the Maui parrotbill, nuku puu, creeper, akepa, crested honeycreeper and poouli. Maui is the best Hawaiian island for viewing humpback whales, particularly January-March.  
north_america_maui_facts.html:  When to Go  Maui is balmy and warm, with northeasterly trade winds prevailing most of the year. Average temperatures differ only about 7 F from winter to summer. Near the coast, daily temperatures average a high of about 83 F (28 C) and a low of around 68 F (20 C). Winter is between December and March, when about twice as much rain falls as in summer. This is the high season, largely because of the unappealing weather on the US mainland. Winter storms can last for days, which can make this season slightly less appealing than summer, but not by much. If you're on a tight budget, low season is April to mid-December, when accommodation rates are cut by up to 30%. Avid divers should come in summer, keen surfers in winter.     Events  Maui celebrates all the traditional American holidays, such as Independence Day and Thanksgiving. In early April, the world's top windsurfing competition, the O'Neill Invitational, is held at Hookipa Beach. Also in early April, the Ulupalakua Thing shows off the talents of Maui's top chefs.  May Day is Lei Day in Hawaii, with lei-making competitions and compulsory lei donning. Around July 4, Maui's cowboy country hosts the old-fashioned Makawao Rodeo. In August the Haleakala Run to the Sun is 36.2 mi (58km) of sweat and panting from sea-level Paia to the top of Haleakala, and in September the scenic 54mi (87km) Hana Relay runs from Kahului to Hana. All things Hawaiian are celebrated during September's Aloha Week.    
north_america_maui_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Kula, the center of Maui's Upcountry and just off Hwy 37, is the agricultural heartland of the island. Crops such as lettuce, tomatoes, carrots, cauliflower and cabbage thrive, due to Kula's warm days, cool nights and rich volcanic soil, and no Hawaiian gourmet would be without sweet Kula onions. The area also grows most of Hawaii's proteas, carnations and chrysanthemums - no one would get leid in Hawaii if it weren't for Kula. During the California Gold Rush in the 19th century, Kula's farmers shipped so many potatoes off to the miners that the area became known as Nu Kaleponi, or New California.  All of Kula is a garden, but if you want to take a closer look, you can visit several established walk-through gardens. Clouds' Rest Protea Farm has a little garden with plants identified by plaques. Kula Botanical Gardens is a mature garden of tropical plants, overgrown and shady, while the more recently established Enchanting Floral Gardens is sunny, open and colorful. The University of Hawaii maintains an Agricultural Research Center here that specializes in developing new protea hybrids. If you feel the need to offer thanks for this floral abundance, the octagonal Holy Ghost Church (built in 1897 by Portuguese immigrants) has a beautifully ornate Iberian interior.  
north_america_mazatlan_activities.html:  Activities  Mazatl n is world famous for its sport fishing - especially for marlin, swordfish, sailfish, tuna and dorado (dolphinfish). There are plenty of fishing operators, all of whom should offer tag and release options. Book ahead for the winter high season.   Water sports, including scuba diving, water-skiing, sailing, parasailing and boogie boarding are all on offer at the Aqua Sports Centre at El Cid Mega Resort. The best surfing is at Punta Camar n and 'Cannons', off the point near the old fort on Paseo Olas Altas.  
north_america_mazatlan_attractions.html:  Attractions  The heart of Old Mazatl n is the large 19th-century cathedral with its high, yellow twin towers and beautiful statues inside. Finished in 1890, it faces the lush trees and bandstand of Plaza Principal. A couple of blocks southwest, the attractive Plazuela Machado is the center of a large historic area of Mazatl n that has been extensively renewed. It's surrounded by attractive sidewalk cafes and historic buildings such as the Teatro ngela Peralta, built in 1860.  Towards the beach, the Museo Arqueol gico is an interesting little archaeological museum. Opposite, the Museo de Arte has permanent and changing exhibits of work by Mexican artists.  The main beach, Playa Olas Altas, is where Mazatl n's tourism began in the 1950s. The seafront road has a few faded '50s hotels facing the water, but erosion and construction have reduced the beach to a small crescent at the northern end of the cove. To the north, the coast road passes Cerro de la Never a, where cliff divers plunge into the ocean below. Further along, Playa Norte is a sunset fishing spot for pelicans and other birds.  At the southern end of the peninsula, a particularly prominent rocky outcrop provides the base for El Faro, 157m (515ft) above sea level and supposedly the second-highest lighthouse in the world (after Gibraltar). You can climb up there for a spectacular view of the city and coast.  
north_america_mazatlan_facts.html:  When to Go  Anytime is a good time to visit warm, tropical Mazatl n. Daily temperatures in summer range from 25 C to 33 C (77 F to 92 F); afternoon rain is common. In winter, the temperature range is a very manageable 19 C to 28 C (66 F to 82 F).  Bear in mind that July and August are peak holiday months for both Mexicans and foreigners. Other big holiday seasons are mid-December to early January, and a week either side of Easter. Mazatl n is also swamped for Carnaval celebrations in the week leading up to Ash Wednesday (in February or March). At these times, room prices are likely to go up and advance reservations for accommodation and transport are advisable.     Events  Mazatl n has one of Mexico's most flamboyant Carnaval celebrations. For the week leading up to Ash Wednesday in February or March, Mazatl n goes on a nonstop partying spree. People from around the country (and beyond) pour in for the music, dancing and general revelry. The party ends abruptly on the morning of Ash Wednesday when Roman Catholics go to church to receive ash marks on their foreheads for the first day of Lent.  A torneo de pesca (fishing tournament) for sailfish, marlin and dorado is held in mid-May and mid-November. Golf tournaments are held throughout the year. On December 12, the day of the Virgen de Guadalupe is celebrated at the cathedral and children rock up in colorful costumes.    
north_america_mazatlan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Concordia is one of several small, picturesque colonial towns in the Sierra Madre foothills and makes a pleasant day trip from Mazatl n. Founded in 1565, Concordia has an 18th-century church with a baroque fa ade and elaborately decorated columns. Hot mineral springs are nearby. The village is known for its manufacture of high-quality pottery and hand-carved furniture. It's about a 45-minute drive east of Mazatl n.  
north_america_memphis_activities.html:  Activities   Walking is the main outdoor activity in Memphis. Beale St and the Mid-America Ped Mall are perfect for strolling. Swimming offers welcome relief from Memphis summers. Mud Island, just across the Wolf River from downtown, has beaches and a pool. The area has great fishing. You can angle off of Mud Island or Treasure Island, at Martin Luther King Riverside Park, a few miles southwest of downtown.  
north_america_memphis_attractions.html:  Attractions  'If Beale Street could talk, married men would take their babes and walk.' That was local blues composer WC Handy's Beale St, circa 1915. In its turn-of-the-century heyday, Beale St was the hub of social, civic and business activity for the city's large African-American community and much of the middle South.  Today, the Disneyfication of the two-block strip of Beale between 2nd and 4th Sts might give some travelers the blues. The rough and tumble barrooms and brothels of yore have been replaced by swanky clubs, restaurants, souvenir shops and neon signs - something of a blues theme park. But it's hard to find fault with the district's safe, comfortable and locally owned and operated nightlife.  Between 2nd and 3rd, musical notes embedded in the concrete mark the Walk of Fame, where some of Memphis' finest musicians are honored. The Beale St Police Museum exhibits such criminalia as the extradition order for James Earl Ray, Martin Luther King Jr's convicted assassin. Schwab's Dry Goods Store, in the family since 1876, is the only remaining original business on Beale St. Schwab's fills three floors with voodoo powders, handcuffs, clerical collars, saucepans and the largest collection of hats in town. Tucked in behind Beale St at 3rd is the Gibson Guitar Plant, where many of the guitar models made famous by local artists are made. Within the plant, the Smithsonian Institution's Rock 'n' Soul Museum examines the social and cultural history that produced the music of the Mississippi Delta.  Between 3rd and 4th Sts, the WC Handy statue overlooks a park named after the composer, where an amphitheater hosts outdoor concerts and New Year's Eve celebrations. Also on the block are the shotgun shack where Handy raised six children, and the Center for the Study of Southern Folklore. The nonprofit center, in an old dry-goods store, has excellent exhibits on art and music, and features live performances.  
north_america_memphis_environment.html:  Environment  Tennessee's knobbly central basin slips westward into the Tennessee River Valley, which in turn gives way to the rolling hill country of Western Tennessee. Tennesseans divide the state strictly into East, Middle and West, though these divisions are imprinted more in regional psychology than in topography.  For most visitors, western Tennessee means Memphis, and in many ways Memphis is more about Mississippi than it is about Tennessee: It's blacker, bluesier and better for barbecue than anywhere else in the state. Spring and autumn are the best seasons for sightseeing.  
north_america_memphis_facts.html:  When to Go  The best times to visit Memphis are the temperate seasons of spring and autumn; these are also the most scenic seasons. Spring is lush with fresh blooms and high rivers, and colorful autumn foliage covers upland woodlands in October. Many Memphis special events are held during these seasons, including the Beale St Music Festival (mid-May), the Spring Powwow (late May or early June) and the International Blues Talent Competition (October).     Events  By city proclamation, the King's birthday (January 8) is Elvis Presley Day, and Graceland is the center of festivities. On or around January 15 (usually the third Monday), Martin Luther King Jr's Birthday is celebrated with a national holiday and a city tribute. Beale St's Zydeco Festival and ethnic activities coincide with Black History Month through February. The anniversary of Martin Luther King's death is marked with a Memorial March on April 4. Memphis in May is the major citywide festival; held mid-month, it includes a barbecue cook-off and the Beale St Music Festival. On Mother's Day weekend (late May or early June), the Spring Powwow is held at Chucalissa. Also in June, the Center for Southern Folklore hosts the Memphis Music and Heritage Festival, a major cultural event with fabulous roots music. It runs for three days and is usually held the second weekend of the month.  The August 15 anniversary of the death of Elvis sparks city-wide events, including a candlelight vigil at Graceland and a Dead Elvis Ball at the P&H Cafe. In October, the International Blues Talent Competition highlights new talent on Beale St. The WC Handy Birthday Celebration in mid-November pays tribute to the original Beale St bluesman. New Year's Eve turns Beale St into a giant street party.    
north_america_memphis_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Heading south from Memphis, as soon as you cross the state line you'll see cotton fields stretching to the horizon, dotted with cabins, tractors and cypress swamps. This is the Mississippi Delta, and Clarksdale is in the heart of it. Birthplace of Sam Cooke, Son House, Jackie Brentson and Little Junior Parker, Clarksdale was also the childhood home of playwright Tennessee Williams. A must-see for blues enthusiasts is the Delta Blues Museum, where modest but informative exhibits cover the history of many forms of African-American music, from field hollers to hip-hop. You can get records of the music and books on its history at the museum store.  You can pick up records by local blues musicians at Rooster Records, located in an old steamboat shack. Rooster also sells its own Delta Blues Map Kit, as well as red flannel mojo bags and roots to get your mojo workin'. Fans of the Empress of the Blues, Bessie Smith, can see the Riverside Hotel (now a run-down boarding house), where Smith died following a car crash in 1937. Her grave went unmarked for decades until Janis Joplin bought a stone for it.  Clarksdale is about 70mi (110km) southwest of Memphis. Greyhound buses run daily between the two.  
north_america_mexico_activities.html:  Activities  The locals' general lack of interest in outdoor activities doesn't stop growing numbers of intrepid gringos from trekking off into what Mexicans probably consider absurdly rough country. Trails around the Copper Canyon and Baja California are among the most popular and developed. Sport fishing is especially popular off the Pacific coast and in the Gulf of California. Snorkeling and diving is wonderful in Mexico, particularly at Caribbean coast resorts like Isla Mujeres, Playa del Carmen, Cozumel, Punta Allen and Banco Chinchorro. On the Pacific coast, try Puerto Vallarta, Zihuatanejo, Acapulco and Huatulco. Inland, there are many balnearios, bathing places with swimming pools, often centered on hot springs in picturesque surroundings. Surfing is popular on the Pacific coast. Some of the best surf spots are between San Jose del Cabo and Cabo San Lucas, Bah a de Matanchen, Ensenada, Mazatl n, Manzanillo and the 'Mexican Pipeline' at Puerto Escondido. Los Barriles is Baja California's windsurfing capital, and further south Puerto Vallarta and Manzanillo can be good too. Veracruz state is the epicenter of the country's white-water rafting industry. A number of Mexico City-based organizations conduct hiking and mountain-climbing trips on Mexico's volcanoes, including Iztacc huatl, Pico de Orizaba, Nevado de Toluca and La Malinche.  
north_america_mexico_attractions.html:  Attractions  Mexico City is a place to love and loathe, with everything you'd expect to find in the world's third-largest metropolis (only Tokyo and NYC are bigger). Mexico's best and worst ingredients are magi-mixed in this polluted and bustling megalopolis of music and noise, brown air and green parks, colonial palaces and skyscrapers, world-renowned museums and ever-spreading slums.  The city's historic center is the Plaza de la Constituci n, or Z calo. The plaza was paved in the 1520s by Hern n Cortes, using stones from the temples and palaces of the Aztec city of Tenochtitl n he'd destroyed, and on which Mexico City was built. The original Aztec city was on an island in the middle of a lake, so many of Mexico City's older buildings and churches are sinking into the boggy ground on which they were constructed. Filling the entire eastern side of the Z calo is the Palacio Nacional (National Palace), built on the site of an Aztec palace and formerly used to house the viceroys of New Spain. It is now home to the offices of the president and a museum devoted to the life of Benito Ju rez, but most people come here to see Diego Rivera's fabulous murals, which chronicle Mexico's history.  The Aztecs' sacred precinct stood on the huge site now occupied by the Catedral Metropolitana, on the northern side of the Z calo. The cathedral was built between 1573 and 1813 on the site of the Aztecs' tzompantli (an altar of sorts on which the skulls of the sacrificed were placed). Just east of the cathedral are the remains of the Templo Mayor, the Aztecs' principal temple. Much of the site has been excavated, revealing the temple's multiple layers of construction and the extraordinary bloodiness of the rituals that took place there. An excellent museum displays artifacts discovered during the excavations.  Less than a 10-minute walk away is the Alameda, once an Aztec marketplace and now the city's largest downtown park. The streets around the Alameda are lined with the city's most interesting buildings, including colonial mansions, lively cafes, restaurants, shops and markets. Other must-sees include the Bosque de Chapultepec, Mexico City's largest park and home to museums, lakes, a zoo and the official residence of the president; the Basilica de Nuestra Se ora de Guadalupe, the church built on the spot where Mexico's patron saint was seen in a vision; the colonial houses, cobbled streets, fabled craft market and Rivera-Kahlo related sites of San ngel; and the ancient canals of Xochimilco, jammed with day-glo pleasure boats on weekends.  The Zona Rosa is the city's major highlife and nightlife district. Condesa and Roma to the south of Zona Rosa also serve up good food and entertainment. The best moderately priced hotels are found in the areas west of the Z calo and south of the Alameda. Excellent cheap food can be found in most areas of the city, particularly from street stands and comedores.  
north_america_mexico_city_activities.html:  Activities  Your feet are often the best way to move short distances, though be warned that altitude, pollution and noise can make walking in Mexico City tiring. Some visitors end up feeling breathless and easily exhausted, or come down with headaches, runny noses or insomnia. Those possible consequences can make rigorous outdoor activities not so appealing.  One of the best things about Mexico City is the many fascinating natural attractions and activities on offer within a few hours' travel out of the city. However, a quite cool (literally) indoor option within the city limits is ice skating at the Pista de Hielo San Jer nimo near the Ciudad Universitaria.  
north_america_mexico_city_attractions.html:  Attractions  Chapultepec, which means Hill of Grasshoppers in the Aztec language (N huatl), once served as a refuge for the wandering Aztecs before eventually becoming a summer residence for Aztec nobles. In the 15th century, Nezahualc yotl, ruler of nearby Texcoco, gave permission for the area to be made a forest reserve. The Bosque de Chapultepec has remained Mexico City's largest park to this day. It now covers more than 4 sq km (1.5 sq mi) and has lakes, a zoo and several excellent museums. Still an abode to Mexico's high and mighty, it contains the current presidential resident (Los Pinos) and a former imperial and presidential palace (Castillo de Chapultepec).  One of its handful of museums, the Museo Nacional de Antropolog a (National Anthropology Museum) is one of the finest museums of its kind in the world. It is extremely large and overwhelming, with more than most people can absorb (without brain strain) in a single visit. The ground-floor halls are dedicated to pre-Hispanic Mexico, and the upper level covers the way modern Mexico's indigenous people, the descendants of those pre-Hispanic civilizations, live today. With a few exceptions, each ethnological section upstairs covers the same territory as the archaeological exhibit below it, so you can see the great Mayan city of Palenque as it was in the 7th century, then go upstairs and see how Mayan people live today.  The park has other museums, including the Museo del Caracol, which covers the subject of the Mexican people's struggle for liberty, the Museo de Arte Moderno, which has a permanent collection of Mexico's notable 20th-century artists, the excellent children's museum Papalote Museo de Ni o and the Museo Nacional de Historia.  
north_america_mexico_city_facts.html:  When to Go  Mexico City's climate is temperate year round, though it can get a little nippy at night from November to February. During this period, because of thermal inversion, air pollution is often at its heaviest. You can generally count on April for ubiquitous lilac-colored jacaranda blossoms coupled with nice temperatures. Though the city will sweep you up at any time of the year, the holiday periods of Semana Santa and Christmas to New Year's are particularly jovial, busy times to visit. Many Mexicans do their holidaying in July or August.     Events  Between Christmas and D a de los Reyes Magos (Three Kings' Day or Epiphany) on January 6, Santa Clauses around Alameda Central are replaced by the Three Kings. Kids get loads of gifts, and the streets are aflutter with shopping stalls. In March, the plazas, palaces and theaters around the city are taken over by the three-week Festival del Centro Hist rico, a program of classical and popular music, dance and cultural events. Semana Santa, Holy Week, starts on Palm Sunday, and closures are usually from Good Friday to Easter Sunday.  On Labor Day, D a del Trabajo, there is a big unionists' gathering in the Z calo in the morning, as well as parades around the city, and May 5, Cinco de Mayo marks the anniversary of Mexico's 1862 victory over the French. D a de la Independencia (September 16), commemorates the start of Mexico's war for independence from Spain, and on its eve, thousands of people gather in Z calo to hear the president recite a version of the Grito de Dolores (Cry of Dolores). Mexico's most characteristic fiesta by far, though, is D a de los Muertos, the Day of the Dead; a happy atmosphere prevails as families build alters in their homes and visit graveyards to commune with the dearly departed, bearing garlands, gifts and food.    
north_america_mexico_city_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The tall art deco tower on the west side of Paseo de la Reforma opposite Avenida Ju rez is the headquarters of a Mexican passion: the Loter a Nacional (National Lottery). Each ticket purchased is for a particular draw ( sorteo) on a specific date, with prizes ranging from around US$600 to more than US$3 million. All sorts of calculations, hunches and superstitions are often called upon to decide which numbers may be lucky. Regular zodiaco draws, in which each ticket bears a sign of the zodiac as well as a number, adds more spice to the procedures. Take a seat in the cozy auditorium upstairs, and at exactly 8pm the ceremony begins. Cylindrical cages spew out numbered wooden balls, which are plucked out by uniformed pages who announce the winning numbers and their respective monetary winnings. You can buy a ticket of your very own at a street vendor or kiosk, and start dreaming of an early retirement in Mexico, a lifelong trip around the world, or at the very least, a lifetime supply of Bohemia lager.  
north_america_mexico_environment.html:  Environment  Covering almost two million sq km (800,000 sq mi), Mexico follows a northwest to southeast curve, narrowing to the Isthmus of Tehuantepec then continuing to the Yucat n Peninsula. On the west and south the country is bordered by the Pacific Ocean, with the Gulf of California lying between the Baja California peninsula and the mainland. Mexico's east coast is washed by the Gulf of Mexico, while the east coast of the Yucat n Peninsula meets the Caribbean Sea. Mexico shares borders with the USA (to the north), and Guatemala and Belize (to the southeast).  Mexico is a mountainous country with two north-south ranges framing a group of broad central plateaus known as the Altiplano Central. In the south, the Sierra Madre del Sur stretches across the states of Guerrero and Oaxaca to the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. From the isthmus, a narrow stretch of lowlands runs along the Pacific coast south to Guatemala. These lowlands are backed by the Chiapas highlands, which merge into a steamy tropical rainforest area stretching into northern Guatemala. The flat, low Yucat n Peninsula is tropical savanna to its tip, where there's an arid, desert-like region.  Bridging temperate and tropical regions, and lying in the latitudes that contain most of the world's deserts, Mexico has an enormous range of natural environments and vegetation zones. Its rugged, mountainous topography adds to the variety by creating countless microclimates. Despite the potential for great ecological diversity, human impact has been enormous. Before the Spanish conquest, about two-thirds of the country was forested. Today, only one-fifth of the country remains verdant, mainly in the south and east. Domesticated grazing animals have pushed the larger animals, such as puma, deer and coyote, into isolated pockets. However, armadillos, rabbits and snakes are common, and the tropical forests of the south and east still harbor (in places) howler and spider monkeys, jaguars, ocelots, tapirs, anteaters, peccaries (a type of wild pig), deer, macaws, toucans, parrots and some tropical reptiles, such as the boa constrictor, though these habitats too are being eroded.  Mexico's climate varies according to its topography. It's hot and humid along the coastal plains on both sides of the country, but inland, at higher elevations such as Guadalajara or Mexico City, the climate is much drier and more temperate. The hot, wet season is May to October, with the hottest and wettest months falling between June and September over most of the country. The low-lying coastal areas receive more rainfall than elevated inland regions. December to February are generally the coolest months, when north winds can make inland northern Mexico decidedly chilly, with temperatures sometimes approaching freezing.  Mexico has suffered more than its fair share of climatic and environmental disasters, though it escaped Hurricane Mitch, which devastated several Central American countries in late 1998. Hurricane Pauline caused 300 deaths and great damage in the Pacific coastal states of Guerrero and Oaxaca in October 1997. Lower than usual rainfall in the 1997-98 winter (blamed on that year's strong El Ni o current across the Pacific Ocean) brought a drought and thousands of forest fires around Mexico in the first half of 1998. Tropical storms and torrential rain along most of the Pacific coast and parts of central Mexico in September 1998 had their worst effects in Chiapas, where many people perished and the road system was badly damaged. This was Mexico's worst natural disaster since the 1985 Mexico City earthquake.  
north_america_mexico_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of many countries - including the USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Argentina, Chile and virtually all Western European countries - do not require visas to enter Mexico as tourists. However, if they are staying longer than 72 hours, or are traveling beyond the Border Zone or certain exempted areas, they must obtain a 180-day Mexican government tourist card (tarjeta de turista), available from embassies or at border crossings (US$18).Health risks: Malaria, Chagas' disease, cholera, dengue fever, filariasis, hepatitis, rabies, tetanus, typhoid. Air pollution in Mexico City is extremely high between November and February. Water must be purified or boiled.Time: Most of Mexico is on Central Standard Time (six hours behind UTC). Baja California Sur and several other states in the northwest are on Mountain Standard Time (seven hours ahead of UTC) and Baja California Norte is on Pacific Standard Time (eight hours ahead of UTC).Electricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Mexico is enjoyable year-round, but October to May is generally the most pleasant time to visit. The May-September period can be hot and humid, particularly in the south, and inland temperatures can approach freezing during December-February. Facilities are often heavily booked during Semana Santa (the week before Easter) and Christmas/New Year, the peak domestic travel periods.  Mexico's climate has something for everyone: it's hot and humid along the coastal plains, and drier and more temperate at higher elevations inland (Guadalajara or Mexico City, for example). Try to avoid Mexico's southern coast between July and September - the resorts are decidedly soggy and jam-packed, as July-August is also the peak holiday months for foreign visitors.     Events  Mexico's reputation for full-blooded festive fun is well founded: just about every month sees a major national holiday or fiesta, and every other day is a local saint's day or town fair celebration. Carnaval (Carnival), held late February or early March in the week before Ash Wednesday, is the big bash before the 40-day penance of Lent; it's particularly flagrant in Mazatl n, Veracruz and La Paz. The country's most characteristic fiesta is the wonderfully macabre D a de los Muertos, held the day after All Saints' Day on November 2. The souls of the dear departed are believed to return to earth on this day, and for weeks beforehand the country's markets are awash with the highly sought-after candy skulls and papier-m che skeletons that find their way into many a visitor's souvenir collection. December 12 is another big day on the Mexican calendar, celebrating the Day of Our Lady of Guadalupe, the country's major religious icon.   Public Holidays: January 1 - New Year's Day February 5 - Constitution Day February 24 - Day of the Flag March 21 - Anniversary of Benito Ju rez's birth March/April - Good Friday-Easter Sunday May 1 - Labor Day May 5 - 1862 victory celebration September 16 - D a de la Independencia October 12 - D a de la Raza November 20 - D a de la Revoluci n December 25 - D a de Navidadback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to MexicoTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_mexico_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Aficionados of industrial archaeology will find Santa Rosal a well worth exploring for the ruins of its massive copper-smeltering operation. The former French company town lies on the Sea of Cortez coast of Baja California Sur, some 50km (31mi) east of San Ignacio. The town also has unusual clapboard residential architecture and a church designed by the famous Alexandre Gustave Eiffel, of Paris' tower fame. The prefabricated church was originally intended for a destination in West Africa but somehow ended up being shipped to Mexico. The French left their legacy in other ways as well: the bakery here sells the best baguettes in Baja.  
north_america_miami_activities.html:  Activities  There's great diving 5 miles (8km) east of Key Biscayne, where the Biscayne Wreck lies beneath the Atlantic. Southeast of Key Biscayne is the John Pennecamp Coral Reef State Park, a protected 78 sq mile (202 sq km) section of the Florida Reef (the third largest in the world). The best diving and snorkeling within the park is around Elkhorn Reef, Schooner Wreck Reef and Dome Reef. Key Largo makes a good base for exploring the park. The southern shore of Key West is another prime diving spot, especially around Key West Harbor.  There is something magical about kayaking through the mangroves, and the best thing about it is that you don't need any lessons and you can rent equipment easily and cheaply. Head for the Everglades to canoe around the 10,000 Islands or along the Wilderness Waterway between Everglades City and Flamingo.   Ultralight aircraft have become so popular that Dade County has built a field specifically for the tiny planes at Homestead General Aviation Airport (HGAA). Ultralights are small aircraft that are regulated but require no pilot's license to fly. Also at HGAA is Skydive Miami, where you can be trained and pushed out of a plane on your first jump ('the most fun you can have with your clothes on') in one day.  
north_america_miami_attractions.html:  Attractions  Most people come to Miami Beach for its beaches, clubs and bars, and to witness one of the most spectacular redesigns in modern architectural history. The Art Deco Historic District, a collection of bright pink, lavender and turquoise buildings dating from the 1920s, is one of the largest areas on the US National Register of Historic Places. Its protection and renovation has been one of the major reasons for the rebirth of Miami as a top notch tourist destination. The Deco district is in the heart of funky South Beach (SoBe), the southwestern section of Miami Beach.  For a city beach, Miami Beach is one of the best around. The water is clear and warm, the sand relatively white and, best of all, it's wide enough and long enough to accommodate the throngs. The Promenade is a Deco-ish, wavy ribbon of concrete at the Beach's westernmost edge. If you've ever looked at a fashion magazine, you've seen it: it's the photo shoot site. If you show up early in the morning, you're likely to see shoots in progress. This is also the hot spot for in-line skaters, bicyclists, skateboarders, dog walkers and people watchers to mill about bumping into each other.  Miami Beach has a strong Jewish culture mixed with a dash of Latin flair: there's even a Cuban-Jewish Congregation. The city's Holocaust Memorial, in the middle of Miami Beach, was created through the efforts of Miami Beach Holocaust survivors. It's an elaborate, exquisitely detailed and moving memorial. Like the Kaddish, the Jewish prayer for the dead that does not once mention death but rather speaks only of life, the Memorial is a testament to humankind's perseverance and the hope for a better world.  Miami Beach is attached to the city of Miami, 4 miles (6km) to its west, by a series of causeways.  
north_america_miami_facts.html:  When to Go  The boundaries of 'season' in Miami - which used to be limited to winter - have been blurred by the huge number of people moving to the area and the stampede of fashion and film shoots. But the most popular time to come here is still between December and May, when temperatures average between 60-85 F (16-30 C), and average rainfall is a scant couple of inches. Miami's Carnaval, which takes place in early March, is the biggest and best reason to come, and hundreds do, so book early and prepare for the parading masses.  Summer can be summed up as very hot and humid, with thunderstorms every day at 3pm. August is the hottest month, with average temperatures between 78-89 F (26-31 C). Remember that it feels a lot hotter than 89 F when there's 90% humidity. However, the advantage of coming during the early summer, despite the higher temperatures and increased rainfall, is that you get more of the place to yourself.  The hurricane season - June to November - can be a perfectly pleasant time to visit, but be aware that it only takes one little hurricane to ruin a holiday.     Events  There are special events all the time in Miami, a city known for its partying, though during the summer months the pickings are slim. The Greater Miami & Beaches Convention & Visitor's Bureau's Destination: Miami and Greater Miami & Beaches Meeting Planner has a complete list, updated annually.  The biggest event of them all is the Carnaval Miami, a nine-day festival at the beginning of March, which includes a Miss Carnaval contest, Carnaval Night concerts at the Orange Bowl, an in-line skating contest, jazz concerts, a Latin drag queen show, and a Calle Ocho cooking contest. The Calle Ocho Festival is the culmination of Carnaval Miami and a great time to be in Little Havana since there are lots of concerts, giveaways and Cuban food.  The International Hispanic Theater Festival from late May to mid-June is one of the largest Hispanic theater events in the US, featuring US, Latin America, Caribbean and European theater companies at the El Carrusel Theater in Coral Gables. The Annual Miami Reggae Festival in early August is a huge celebration of the music 'from de people', held at Bayfront Park.  Literary types might want to make it to the Miami Book Fair, held during the second week of November. This international book fair is among the most well-attended in the US, with hundreds of nationally known writers joining hundreds of publishers and hundreds of thousands of visitors.    
north_america_miami_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Everglades is a unique and delicate ecosystem made up of swamps and marshes at the southern tip of the Florida peninsula. It's the largest subtropical wilderness in the continental US but is currently under threat from pollution.  From the brackish waters of the mangrove and cypress swamps, to hardwood hammocks, sawgrass flats and Dade County pinelands, there is simply no place in the world like the Everglades. These marshes are home to crocodiles and alligators, bottle-nosed dolphins, manatees, snowy egrets, bald eagles and ospreys. You can visit for an afternoon or get totally absorbed for days canoeing around the 10,000 Islands and along the Wilderness Waterway.  The main points of entry to the park have visitors centers where you can get maps, camping permits and information from rangers. Free camping permits are required for overnight stays. By far the easiest and cheapest way to get to the Everglades is by car. The drive from Miami takes a little less than two hours. Greyhound only serves Naples, about 25 miles (40km) north of the Gulf Coast Visitor Center.  
north_america_minneapolis_activities.html:  Activities  Bikers in downtown Minneapolis can escape to the Mississippi River Regional Park and its network of riverside biking and walking trails. Another option is the Grand Rounds Parkway, a bucolic path skirting the shores of the Mighty Miss and Minnehaha Creek. Along the way you get a bird's-eye view of the spectacular 45ft (13m) Minnehaha Falls - the very ones celebrated in Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's poem Song of Hiawatha.  Folks in the Twin Cities are mad about fishing, no doubt because 949 lakes dot the greater metro area (yes, somebody counted them). Drop a line and you're virtually guaranteed to bag a bass, trout or freshwater salmon. When the weather heats up, canoeing and kayaking become weekend mainstays on these same tranquil tarns.  Being snowbound for months isn't so bad, not if you're into skiing, dog sledding and snowmobiling, all prime winter pursuits. Thrill-seeking skiers may be disappointed - these ain't the Alps, after all. Yet what Minnesota lacks in vertical drop, it makes up for with scenery and convenience. Especially convenient are the 7 downhill and 25 cross-country ski areas within a 45-minute drive of downtown Minneapolis. Winter wonderland indeed.  
north_america_minneapolis_attractions.html:  Attractions  Downtown Minneapolis is the Twin Cities' cultural heart and the place where visitors spend much of their time. Smack in the middle of downtown, Nicollet Mall is a 12-block shopping zone with all the usual trappings - trendy restaurants, boisterous bars, public sculptures and earnest street musicians. The pedestrian-only mall (city buses are allowed, but no private cars) was created in 1967 and extensively renovated in 1991. Despite some early controversies, Nicollet Mall has become a much-imitated model for urban renewal projects throughout North America.  An equally eye-catching landmark is the 51-story IDS Center just off Nicollet Mall at S 8th St. The octagonal glass skyscraper (the tallest in Minnesota) is considered one of architect Philip Johnson's finest works. More impressive still, it was featured in the opening credits of The Mary Tyler Moore Show.  Neither rain nor snow prevents sports-mad fans from worshipping at their domed downtown temple, the 62,000-seat Hubert H Humphrey Metrodome. It's home to the Vikings (professional US football), Twins (professional baseball) and Gophers (college football).  Less than a mile south is the sizable Minneapolis Institute of Arts, housed in a dramatic 1915 Beaux Arts building. The collection ranges from African masks to Chinese jade to European oil paintings (Van Gogh, Monet, Picasso, Magritte - you get the picture). From Dr Seuss to Mother Goose, art of a different kind is on offer in the institute's lobby, home to the nationally respected Children's Theatre Company.  It's a short hop east to the American Swedish Institute, a superb 33-room Romanesque mansion on Park Ave. Built in 1900 by Swedish-American publisher Swan Turnblad, it today houses a library and Swedish cultural center plus exhibits from the 1880s and '90s, when Minneapolis had a larger Swedish population than most cities in Sweden.  
north_america_minneapolis_environment.html:  Environment  Long ago the Sioux Indians called one of the region's major rivers minisota, meaning, sky-tinted waters. In the 'land of 10,000 lakes' (actually thousands more), the name is equally if not more apt today. Millions of annual vacationers seek out the waters for the wealth of outdoor recreation. In addition to all the water, forests, with all their recreational possibilities, cover 35% of the state.  Residents sometimes refer to their state as Minne snowta, and they have a point. Although it doesn't always, it can snow as early as October and as late as May. Residents in the central and northern regions shovel many feet per season. Drivers should be prepared and well-informed if blizzards have been forecast. If you're traveling in winter, build delays into your agenda.  
north_america_minneapolis_facts.html:  When to Go  Winter can be bitterly cold, forcing warm-blooded creatures into the enclosed Skyways that connect many buildings in downtown Minneapolis and St Paul. December, January and February are the most bone-chilling months, with an average daytime temperature of 25 F (-4 C). The average low temperature in winter is a crisp 5 F (-15 C).  In summer and early fall (June to September), the Twin Cities get downright hot, with average daytime temperatures at a balmy 82 F (28 C). The hottest month is July, with temperatures peaking around 85 F (29 C) and air so sticky it glistens. Rainfall is plentiful in summer, with an average 17in (45cm) falling between May and September.     Events  The St Paul Winter Carnival, the USA's oldest winter festival, was started back in 1886 to celebrate some of Minnesota's most obvious features - snow and ice. There's ice fishing, ice-castle building, snowball fights, torchlit processions and all manner of oddball winter worship. The annual festival draws up to 1.3 million visitors over 12 days in late January/early February.  The Festival of Nations, a 60-year-old event held each April, celebrates the Twin Cities' cultural diversity with international music and dance performances. The Heart of the Beast Mayday Parade, on the first Sunday of May, draws over 250,000 people to Minneapolis's Powderhorn Park to watch colorful puppets marching into spring.  Equally large crowds converge on downtown St Paul on the first Sunday of June for Grand Old Day, the Midwest's largest street festival. Aquatennial is a 10-day festival in July that is to water what the winter carnival is to snow. Purists claim the event hasn't been the same since the Aqua Folly water dancers were canned in the 1960s. They've been replaced by milk-carton boat races, rubber ducky float fests, sailing, swimming and just about anything else that can be done on, in or near water.  Fancy a hot dog? A twirl of cotton candy? How about some cheese-on-a-stick? All this and more make the Minnesota State Fair one of the largest and wackiest in the country. Pet a hog, love a llama, lose your lunch on a roller coaster - just don't make any plans for the two weeks leading up to Labor Day (late August/early September).  When winter arrives, it's time to drag the kids down to Nicollet Mall in Minneapolis for Holidazzle, a nightly half-hour procession of floats and marching bands that runs from Thanksgiving through New Year's.    
north_america_minneapolis_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  What can you say about a mall housing more than 500 stores, 70 restaurants, 14 movie screens, a wedding chapel, an 18-hole mini-golf course, a gargantuan aquarium and a Camp Snoopy amusement park, all under one roof? For starters you could say it's the largest darn mall in America, an immense consumer-driven entertainment complex that simply boggles the mind. With 42.5 million yearly visitors (more than Disney World, Graceland and the Grand Canyon combined), it's the USA's fifth-most visited attraction.  This mini-city lies in the southern suburb of Bloomington, a short drive from downtown Minneapolis. The airport is also nearby, so shoppers can jump from in-flight meals to in-store deals.  
north_america_molokai_activities.html:  Activities   For those who believe that if a mountain is there, it should be climbed, Molokai is your place. For a place that presents itself as laid back, it sure has a lot of sweat-inducing activities. Swimming is always an option (it's an island!) but a lot of the Kaunakakai coastline is too silty for good swimming and some of the beaches surrounding Molokai are rough and dangerous. The southeastern end of the island has most of the swimmable beaches. Good snorkelling locations can be a little hard to find, but the waters off 20-Mile Beach in East Molokai offer some pretty fishes and a day of sun and sea. Molokai is particularly famed for its kayaking routes. You could kayak for weeks on end along the coast and across pristine reefs or remote valleys, but a note of caution: for some routes - through ocean swells and rough waves - are for experienced kayakers only. Hiking is popular through Molokai's lush valleys (fed by many spectacular waterfalls), beautiful rainforests, rugged cliffs and long beaches. If you get tired of all that natural splendour, there's also motorbike riding, tennis, and golf.  
north_america_molokai_attractions.html:  Attractions  This is Molokai's biggest town, but it has no shopping malls, and no chain stores. What it does have is a look and feel somewhere between a tropical port and an Old West frontier town and an easy, laid back attitude.  Gone are the days when pineapple was loaded from Kaunakakai Wharf but a commercial barge still uses the harbor once a week and there are mooring facilities for smaller boats. Along the foreshore are some stone foundations, the remains of King Kamehameha V's vacation palace, built in the 1860s. A 15 minute walk west out of town and you can see the King's sacred bathing pools and the Kapuaiwa ('mysterious taboo') Coconut Grove - acres of coconut palms planted for His Majesty. But all in all, the biggest sight in Kaunakaki is a natural one: the fiery red sunset that comes down over the town and the harbor.  
north_america_molokai_environment.html:  Environment  Molokai is Hawaii's fifth largest Island, 38 miles long and 10 miles wide (61km by 16km) and roughly rectangular in shape. It lies midway in the Hawaiian chain, about 25 miles southeast of Oahu and nine miles northwest of Maui.  Geologically speaking, Molokai is a union of two separate shield volcanoes that erupted to form two distinct islands. In the East, waves of lava threw up high mountains which acted as a funnel, trapping the clouds and causing heavy rainfall and stream erosion to cut deep valleys where today luxuriant rainforest grows. The West formed into more modest hills and tableland. Later eruptions spilled lava into the channel that separated the two volcanoes, forming the Hoolehua Plains and creating present-day Molokai.  Molokai has rich soil, and some feel the island may have the potential to be Hawaii's 'breadbasket.' After pineapple plantations left Molokai in the late 1970s, islanders began to develop small-scale farming more intensely. Significant crops include coffee, watermelons, dryland taro, macadamia nuts, sweet potatoes, seed corn, string beans and onions. Molokai stays warm and sunny all the year round, with an average annual rainfall of 27 inches (70cm).  
north_america_molokai_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Conditions of entry are the same as those for the USA. Most visitors require a visa. However, Canadians need only proof of citizenship and citizens of the UK, New Zealand, Japan, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland can stay up to 90 days without a visa.Time: GMT/UTC minus 10 hoursTelephone Area Code: 808Electricity: 110/120V, 60Hz When to Go   When it comes to the best time to visit Molokai, you can choose between the perfect and the near-perfect. All year round, Molokai hovers at a balmy and constant 75 F (24 C), rarely moving far in either direction. In the spring, summer and fall the temperature drops a bit after sundown for pleasant evenings cooled by winds off the ocean. From April to November there's barely a shower. December to March is the wettest time of the year, but even then your paradise sojourn should only occasionally be threatened by a tiny touch of 'weather'.     Events   In mid January Molokai stands up for all things traditional and Hawaiian by hosting the Ka Moloka'I Makahiki, or Ancient Hawaiian Games. This week-long celebration features native Hawaiian sports and events, including an outrigger-canoe fishing contest. Prince Kuhio Day, on 26 March, is a national celebration when Molokai and the rest of Hawaii honors Hawaii's first delegate to the US Congress with music, song and dance. Lei Day in May is a rhyme too good to pass up and a national holiday; schools all across the state celebrate with outdoor hula dancing, singing, and lei making competitions.  In mid May, the Molokai Ka Hula Piko festival celebrates Molokai pride as the birthplace of hula dancing with displays of traditional and modern hula. The Molokai Challenge, held in late May, is a 32-mile (52km) kayak race across the treacherous Kaiwi Channel, from Kaluakoi Resort to Kok Marina in Oahu. In September the Aloha Festivals Parade is followed by Drag Races down Kaunakakai's main street. The Na Molokai Hoe, held in October, is Hawaii's major outrigger-canoe race, attracting teams from all over the world, who take off shortly after sunrise on Molokai and finish at Waikiki's Fort DeRussy Beach about five eight hours later.    
north_america_molokai_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Moomomi Beach is ecologically unique: one of the few undisturbed coastal sand dune areas left in Hawaii. Among its grasses and shrubs are at least five endangered plant species that exist nowhere else in the world. There's also evidence it is one of the few populated islands where green sea turtles can still find a habitat suitable for breeding.  This beach may be something of a secret due to a small confusion created by its name: Moomomi Beach is not the small sandy beach at Moomomi Bay favoured by sunbathers. Instead take a 20-minute walk west of Moomomi Bay into Kawaaloa Bay: that's where you'll find the Moomomi Beach, which maybe should have been called Kawaaloa Beach. Or whatever. It's worth the extra trouble: three miles of lonely, wild shoreline encompassing a huge crescent bay. If you're driving, Moomomi Beach is accessible by dirt road only - not recommended for rental cars.  
north_america_montreal_activities.html:  Activities  Canadians sure do love their outdoors and in this regard, Montrealers are no different. The city has fantastic parks and gardens. The huge Parc du Mont Royal offers outdoor action aplenty: walking, picnicking (it is a pursuit!), jogging, horseback riding, bicycling and frisbeeing. If that isn't exhausting enough, in the winter there's ice-skating, tobogganing and cross-country skiing.  It isn't surprising to discover that Montreal has about 400km (250mi) of bike paths, including one that links Vieux (Old) Montreal with the Parc des les and the historic suburb of Lachine along the city's old canal. On the le Notre Dame, the Grand Prix track becomes a haven for inline skating, while its summer-use rowing basin becomes a monster ice-skating rink in the winter. There is also swimming at the city's Olympic Park Centre Aquatic and amazing boating, canoeing and kayaking to be had at the beautiful Parc Mille les in Laval, north of Montreal.  
north_america_montreal_attractions.html:  Attractions  Set up as a public market space in 1803, the Place Jacques Cartier in Montreal's romantic Vieux Montreal (Old Montreal) is still the area's focal point. Filled with vendors, visitors, performers and horse-drawn carriages in the summer, it can push the point of rubbing shoulders with the locals a little too literally during the peak season. Near the austere H tel de Ville (City Hall), the Place Jacques Cartier is the perfect spot to launch a walking assault on Montreal's oldest district. Explore the park-lined Promenade de Vieux Port (Old Port) along the waterfront and the narrow, cobblestone streets around Rue St Paul with its old stone houses and buildings that now house little restaurants, galleries and clubs.  Elsewhere among the charm and character of Old Montreal is the Place d'Armes, the other major square in the area, featuring the magnificent Basilica Notre Dame. Built in 1829 and big enough to hold 5000 people, the Basilica's luscious, richly detailed interior houses the Chapelle du Sacre Couer (Sacred Heart Chapel) and still attracts legions of admirers. In the west end of Vieux Montreal is the Place Royale where Ville Marie, Montreal's first small fort town, was built. It later became a marketplace and is now the forecourt of the Veille Douane (Old Customs House), linked to the Pointe a Calliere Museum of Archaeology & History. Built on the exact spot of Montreal's first European settlement, the fascinating museum is mostly underground, in the actual ruins of buildings and an ancient sewage/river system.  
north_america_montreal_facts.html:  When to Go  Montreal has a notoriously arctic winter (December-March) that makes it great as a base for winter sports, but with the sort of spiteful temperatures that would probably frighten a polar bear. Thankfully, Montreal gets around the problem with its 'Underground City', a unique climate-controlled labyrinthe of 2000 shops and 29km (18mi) of corridors. This makes the city an alluring year-round tourist drawcard - a winter wonderland during the cold season and warm, long, lazy nights in the summer. Late May to early September is peak tourist time and sees a seamless procession of festivals, including the legendary Jazz Festival and the Grand Prix, take over the town.     Events  It's no surprise that a city proud of its art and cultural heritage has no shortage of entertainment and celebrations. The Montreal Jazz Festival is perhaps the city's most famous fixture, with jazz legends from far and wide playing for the discerning and appreciative Montrealers from late June until early July. At the other end of the serenity scale, the Canadian Grand Prix, held in early June on Montreal's le Notre Dame, is a major drawcard for speed freaks.  In what has become a hugely popular and all-welcoming event, Montreal's gay scene shakes its booty during the first week of August - Gay & Lesbian Pride Week, where almost anything goes. Gaining increasing reputations worldwide for unearthing new talent are the Fringe Festival, the Just For Laughs Festival and the Montreal International Film Festival. To top it all off with the biggest of bangs, the Montreal International Fireworks Competition from late-June until late July is a prestigious pyrotechnic pow-wow drawing oohs and aahs from gaping audiences on the banks of St Lawrence River.    
north_america_montreal_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Built for the 1976 Montreal Olympic Games, the massive Parc Olympique cost Montrealers more than $US1 billion and is shrouded in the type of scandal, indignation and allegations of corruption that today's Olympic movement would be proud of. The irony is that the complex, 3km (2mi) east of downtown, is undeniably magnificent and an incredibly popular drawcard for the city. Finally completed in 1990, its grandiose mulitpurpose showpiece, the Stade Olympique (or 'Big O' to its friends), has carried on the controversial tradition, including a collapsed beam during a football game a year after completion, mechanical mishaps and a laughable litany of repairs. However, these have not dampened visitors' enthusiasm for its tours. A cable car runs up the Montreal Tower, which impressively overhangs the stadium, to a glassed-in observation deck, showing off stunning views of the city and beyond for a distance up to 80km (50mi).  Housed within the former velodrome at the Olympic Complex is the spectacular Biod me, which re-creates four distinct ecosystems and is home to 5000 plants and 4000 animals, including the too-cute penguins, monkeys and alligators. Elsewhere within Olympic Park are the Jardin Botanique, the third-largest Botanical Gardens in the world; with over 30 different garden settings and plant species galore; and the Insectarium, a great collection of creepy-crawlies that will endlessly fascinate even as they repulse.  
north_america_napa_valley_activities.html:  Activities  There are numerous opportunities for hiking throughout the Napa and neighboring Sonoma valleys; many vineyards offer hikes and walks through their expansive grounds. More challenging is the 5mi (8km) climb to the 4343-foot (1500m) summit of Mt St Helena, in Robert Louis Stevenson State Park. Bicycling through Wine Country is another memorable experience, although it's best to stick to the quieter back roads when possible; try the Silverado Trail rather than Hwy 29.The valley is fairly flat and cycle-friendly, and pedaling between wineries is not too demanding.  Even tea-totalers can get high in wine country: Gliding, hot-air ballooning and flying in vintage aircraft over the region are just a few ways to get your feet off the ground. Balloon flights are the most popular, perhaps because a champagne breakfast is usually included in the deal.  Of course, the most popular activity around is wine tasting, and with 300 wineries serving 'flights' of six to eight wines for your enjoyment - usually costing $3 to $10 - you'll be seeing double in no time. Some of Napa's finest include PlumpJack, with an excellent 2000 Syrah; Stag's Leap, makers of the cabernet sauvignon that beat France's best back in 1976; Hess Collection & Winery, with an adjacent art gallery; Clos Pegase, featuring sculptures on the grounds of the 1987 Michael Graves-designed buildings; and Chateau Montelena, with good cabernets and a beautiful lake with Chinese-style bridges and pavilions. Bottoms up!  
north_america_napa_valley_attractions.html:  Attractions  Napa is the valley's financial, if not cultural, center. There are interesting old buildings in the small downtown, plus a few good restaurants. But the main reasons to stop are more practical: Napa makes a convenient center for exploration of the area's more intoxicating attractions, and a plethora of shops rent bicycles if you'd like to pedal from vineyard to vineyard (yes, California law does prohibit biking while tipsy, so be careful out there).  If you'd rather not work up a sweat while you sample, hop aboard Napa Valley Wine Train, which conducts brunch, lunch and dinner tours throughout the year in vintage Pullman dining cars traveling to St Helena and back. After your ride, check out Copia, a $50 million wine, food and cultural center that has brought a much-needed boost to Napa's downtown area. Day passes include access to the extensive organic gardens, art exhibits and wine programs. Tickets for film screenings, cooking classes, outdoor concerts and more are sold separately.  
north_america_napa_valley_environment.html:  Environment  Along the Napa River, soil is fertile and well-drained, while atop the mountains concentrations of toxic ultramafic rocks and limited biomatter make growing even grapes - known for their ability to thrive in soil useless for other large-scale agricultural endeavors - impossible. Between these two extremes, the slopes provide plenty of essential nutrients but an environment stressful enough to coax stronger flavors from the grapes grown there.  The climate, too, varies throughout the valley. At latitude 38 , there's generally too much sun for growing high quality grapes, but the temperature is moderated by the Coriolis affect caused by the California Current, which carries almost freezing water from Alaska along the coast, cooling the region. There are five major climate zones in Napa valley (and 15 recognized microclimates), with a variation of 10 F between Calistoga and cooler Napa on any given summer day. These variations in soil and climate have given rise to the distinctive flavors of different wines bottled from the same species of grape in different parts of the valley.  Though the region's relatively sparse population (by Californian standards, anyway) kept Napa Valley relatively free of the anthropomorphic environmental stresses that plague the nearby Bay Area, that has changed in recent years. Large-scale irrigation, fertilizer and pesticide use, cutting forests to make room for more grapes, and rapidly increasing development are all growing concerns. The Napa River and associated watershed are both suffering, while increased tourism has also transformed a rural paradise into a headache for environmentalists.  
north_america_napa_valley_facts.html:  When to Go  Spring and fall are the best times to visit. Summers tend to be hot and dusty, as well as decidedly crowded. Fall (September-November) combines fine weather with the grape harvest and the 'crush,' when the wine-making season gets under way with the pressing of the grapes.     Events  Summer and fall in the valley mean weekend farmer's markets in most of the major cities and towns; in addition to fresh produce, you'll find excellent deals on wine. Annual events that pack 'em in include the Napa Valley Mustard Festival in February and March, with events all over the valley that include mustard tastings, cooking contests and art shows. Also in February, the Napa Valley Barrel Auction offers sweet deals on small lots of handcrafted wines, sold to the highest bidder.  This is an area that prides itself on upscale elegance, hence the Napa Valley Classic, a semi-formal equestrian event that takes place in July. If horseplay doesn't interest you, try the Napa Valley Shakespeare Festival, with theatrical performances all month long, or Movies in the Vineyards, Napa's film festival, both held in July. There are dozens of winery-sponsored events during the fall crush, but do-it-yourselfers meet at the Home Winemakers Classic each August to show off their homegrown prowess. In September, the Napa Valley Wine & Crafts Fair makes sure you're just tippled enough to appreciate the work of local artisans.  The Napa Valley Wine Festival, held in November, brings out more than 50 vintners pushing their product on vast crowds eager for a sip or ten. Come December, the Yountville Festival of Lights proves that you don't have to be tasteful all the time, even in Napa Valley. Carols in the Caves takes advantage of the acoustics in all those wine cellars just before Christmas.    
north_america_napa_valley_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The small town of Sonoma makes an excellent base for exploring the vineyards of Sonoma Valley, Northern California's other favorite place to get elegantly plastered. 'Slow-noma,' the locals' term for their relaxing, livable wine town, hints at the low-key charms of the Sonoma Valley. With its family-owned wineries and quiet rural back roads, the 'Valley of the Moon' (Jack London's literary name for the region) can be a more enjoyable place to wander around than the larger and more crowded Napa Valley.  The wine is just as good as Napa Valley's, but the wineries in Sonoma Valley are generally less crowded, and free tastings are still the norm. There are several wineries within easy bicycling distance of the town center. Valley of the Moon, Wellington and Kenwood are three top-quality Sonoma winemakers worth a visit.  
north_america_nashville_activities.html:  Activities  Within Nashville, Centennial Park is the city's most popular spot for urban recreation. The Centennial Park Sportsplex offers a swimming pool, tennis courts and an ice skating rink off West End Ave. Riverfront Park is a favorite with walkers and joggers. You can rent in-line skates and bicycles downtown.  Miles of easy to moderate hiking trails crisscross the 1000 acre (400 hectare) Radnor Lake State Natural Area in the Overton Hills, 6 miles (10km) south of downtown. The scenic sanctuary surrounding the lake is a favorite retreat of Nashville folk. Southwest of town, Percy Warner Park and Edwin Warner Park also offer hiking through wooded hills, and they're close to the northern terminus of the Natchez Trace Parkway, a 200 mile (320km) corridor of parkland that stretches from Nashville all the way to Natchez, Mississippi. It's one of the most popular bicycle touring routes in the country.  Parkland surrounds most of J Percy Priest Reservoir, 10 miles (15km) east of downtown, and there are a number of recreation areas around the lake with facilities for camping, swimming and fishing. Around Old Hickory Dam, 25 miles (40km) northeast of town, the Hermitage Recreation Area is developed as a resort, and you can arrange boating or sailing excursions on Old Hickory Lake.  
north_america_nashville_attractions.html:  Attractions  Downtown Nashville is a compact and pleasant place to wander. Towering office buildings and modern halls dominate but manage not to overwhelm the city's historic structures and streets (which are few but renovated and well maintained). At downtown's western end, the 1845 Greek Revival State Capitol remains the area's principal landmark. Architect William Strickland is buried in its northeast corner, and the tomb of President and Mrs James K Polk is outside on Capitol Hill. Steep stairs on its northern side lead down to a farmers market and the Tennessee Bicentennial Mall at downtown's back door.  Facing Charlotte Ave, the Capitol looks out over government buildings surrounding the Legislative Plaza, where cherry trees explode with white blossoms in early spring. The block-long Performing Arts Center downhill to the east houses the Tennessee State Museum. The underground museum spills out onto Union St, off which you'll find the city's elite banks and hotels, most notably the 1910 Hermitage Hotel, which was headquarters for both the advocates and opponents of women's suffrage on the eve of Tennessee's ratification of the 19th Amendment in 1920.  Union St leads east to 1st Ave N and the western end of Riverfront Park on the Cumberland River. The park runs between the bridges at Woodland St and Shelby Ave, providing a landscaped promenade thick with shade trees and busy with walkers and horse-drawn carriages. In the park, just south of Davis Blvd, a stockade surrounds Fort Nashborough, a 1930s replica of the city's original outpost. Across the river just north of Shelby Ave, construction continues on a new football stadium to house the relocating Houston Oilers.  The historic 2nd Ave N business area was the center of the cotton trade in the 1870s and '80s, when most of the Victorian warehouses were built (note the cast-iron and masonry facades). Today, it's the heart of what's called The District, where modern interiors are filled with shops, restaurants, underground saloons and nightclubs, including the Wildhorse Saloon of Nashville Network TV fame. Two blocks south on Commerce St, Printers Alley is a narrow cobblestone lane that has been known for its nightlife since the 1940s. The Bourbon Street Blues & Boogie Bar anchors this notably non-countrified enclave of nightspots and restaurants.  A scenic, seedy cowboy ghetto along 'Lower Broad' between 4th and 5th Aves behind the Ryman Auditorium has country bars, adult bookstores and BBQ joints. Tootsie's Wild Orchid Lounge on the north side is the best known of the dives; snakeskin boots and chewing tobacco are available between musical acts next door at Robert's Western World, home of alternative country musicians BR5-49.  
north_america_nashville_facts.html:  When to Go  Most of Nashville's main music fests and other public celebrations take place during the sweltery season, from May through September, when daytime temperatures edge upwards to 90 F (33 C) and humidity can climb to 80%. Taking the good with the bad, this is an excellent time to get a real taste for life in Music City. In terms of climate alone, you may be happier visiting in October and November, when temperatures fall to around 70 F (20 C) and the humidity drops by half. Rainfall is fairly evenly spread out over the year, with August through October being the driest months. Snowfall is heaviest in January and February, but even then it's more an occasion for snowball fights than blizzard scares.     Events  It's no surprise that most of Nashville's festivities (and there are a lot of them) center on music. Headliner music festivals make Nashvillians shake their collective booty at regular intervals throughout the year, some of them stretching on for months at a go. Each Thursday evening from May to September, the city hosts free concerts at Riverfront Park. From late May to mid-August, the Tennessee Jazz & Blues concert series enlivens the grounds of Belle Meade Plantation and the Hermitage. And on the Memorial Day and Labor Day weekends, Opryland makes a joyous noise with its Gospel Jubilee.  Among the short-term shindigs is a commemoration of the Battle of New Orleans at the Hermitage on 9 January, with a ceremony at Andrew Jackson's tomb. Music City Blues Celebration is held downtown in early March. On 15 March, Andrew Jackson's birthday is remembered with a wreath-laying ceremony at the Hermitage. In mid-April, the Tin Pan South music festival showcases songwriters. Early May brings more than 150 artisans to Centennial Park for the Tennessee Crafts Fair. A rite of spring for equestrians, the early May Iroquois Steeplechase features races and tailgate picnics in Percy Warner Park.  Late May's Summer Lights in Music City is a downtown outdoor festival of arts, music, dance and theater. In mid-June, the American Artisan Festival at Centennial Park teems with handmade craftwork. The Celtic Music & Summer Solstice Celebration revels in Scottish and Irish music, dance and culture, generally on Father's Day. The TNN Country Awards (the 'People's Choice' of country music) bring national stars to Opryland mid-month. The International Country Music Fan Fairat the fairgrounds and at Opryland draws 24,000 fans to more than 35 hours of stage shows and concerts by 100 artists mid-month. In late June, Chet Atkins hosts Musician Days concerts to celebrate the session musician.  On 4 July, the Independence Day celebration at Riverfront Park is a family event (no alcohol) of food and fireworks. In mid-August, the Music City Pig Fest at the National Guard Armory features a BBQ cook-off, Tennessee wine tasting, hog-calling and pony rides. In early September, the Civil War Encampment at Travelers Rest reenacts the Confederate occupation preceding the 1864 Battle of Nashville, admission. The Tennessee State Fair brings livestock, midway rides and arts and crafts to the fairgrounds. In late September, the African Street Festival at the TSU campus features poetry, rap, reggae, blues, jazz and gospel music along with ethnic foods and fashions. The Italian Street Fair is a big block party fundraiser for the symphony.  In mid-October, an Oktoberfest of polka, accordions and bratwurst is held in the tiny Germantown historic district. In late October, a Pow Wow at the Hermitage Landing Recreation Area brings Native Americans from many different nations together for traditional dances and cultural arts. Starting in late November, Christmas celebrations are scheduled at the Opryland Hotel, Belle Meade and the Belmont Mansion; most run through early January. In early December, a Christmas Parade downtown features floats, bands and clowns.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's DayThird Monday in January - Martin Luther King DayThird Monday in February - Presidents DayEaster Holiday - Good FridayLast Monday in May - Memorial Day4 July - Independence DayFirst Monday in September - Labor DaySecond Monday in October - Columbus Day11 November - Veterans DayFourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving Day25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to NashvilleTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_nashville_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The historic home of Andrew Jackson, the Hermitage is Nashville's most prized historic-home museum and a monument to the state's most famous political figure. Beginning his national political career as Tennessee's single Representative even before it had officially gained statehood, the fiery tempered Jackson went on to become the 7th US president.  Set among gardens in a wooded urban retreat, the graceful mansion is an amalgamation of its original 1821 Federal style with Pallatian flourishes and Grecian columns added in the 1830s. The big house was once the center of a self-sufficient cotton plantation of 1500 acres worked by 150 slaves. The modern visitor center introduces Jackson's life with a short film.  The Hermitage is about 20 miles (30km) northeast of Nashville, and a car is the best way to reach it.  
north_america_new_orleans_activities.html:  Activities  Audubon Park is an ideal in-line skating area just west of the Garden District along the banks of the Mississippi. You can circle the park or concentrate on speed near the river in adjacent Levee Park, where you are less likely to crash into other park users. Lakeshore Park, a 10 mile (16km) narrow shoreline strip fronting Lake Pontchartrain, is also a great place to blade with long, paved trails. Skates are available for rent near both parks.  New Orleans is a great city for biking - it's flat and compact - just watch out for those hungry potholes that swallow skinny tires. A better bet is to hop on a fat-tire mountain bike - the perfect urban swamp cruiser. Casual bicycling is done in City Park, around the lakefront and on the bike trail around Audubon Park and Levee Park. For long-distance rides and tours, make sure you're well prepared for rain.  The good news for anglers is that Louisiana's commercial live catch leads the nation. Freshwater fishing is also appealing as the warm inland waters are incredibly productive habitats for catfish, sacalait (white perch) and bass. Casual anglers can try for the catfish and sacalait in Bayou Metairie at City Park. There's no equipment rental, but cane poles are sold cheaply at the boat rental near the Casino Building. Inexpensive daily fishing permits are required.  
north_america_new_orleans_attractions.html:  Attractions  The French Quarter (or Vieux Carre, as it's sometimes called) was the city's original focal point and remains its chief tourist draw. It houses nearly all New Orleans' signature tourist icons, and Bourbon Street alone, with its stormy nightlife and naughty sex shows, defines the city's bawdy character. Whether you're a teetotaler or a dipso, a walking tour of the Quarter is a must.  What surprises most newcomers is that despite the name, the Quarter is noted for its Spanish, not French, architecture. With the exception of the Old Ursuline Convent - the oldest building in New Orleans, dating from 1745 - the district's French-designed buildings were destroyed by the tremendous fires of 1788 and 1794. The distinctly Spanish character that emerged in the rebuilt city is seen today in its broad window openings, crowned by graceful arches, and handsome fan-shaped transoms. Lacy ironwork railings on galleries overhanging the street are particularly emblematic.   Royal Street, the 'Main Street' of the French Quarter, is the postcard image of the neighborhood: its cast-iron galleries and Greek Revival buildings make camera shutters click like locusts in heat. Jackson Square remains the central and most important starting point for visitors to the Quarter, with its nebulous assortment of street musicians, artists, fortune tellers and mimes doing their shtick on the sidewalk. On adjacent Chartres St, two notable history museums are the Cabildo and the Presbytere, the former emphasizing the external impact of New Orleans, the latter concentrating on its internal history.  Even if you wouldn't give a nickel to see where the coins used to come from, the Old US Mint's Mardi Gras Museum exhibits on New Orleans Carnival history should get your attention. Upstairs, the memorabilia comprising the Mint's New Orleans Jazz Exhibit imparts a clear sense of how jazz evolved - from its roots in the rhythms brought by African slaves to recent Jazz Fest performances.  Just inside the entrance to St Louis Cemetery No 1 sits the most visited gravesite in all of New Orleans, the purported resting place of voodoo queen Marie Laveau; you'll recognize it as the unkempt tomb covered with the chalkmarked X's of devotees. If you want the city's history in a nutshell, the National Park Service's free 'History of New Orleans' tour departs from their visitor center on N Peters St.  
north_america_new_orleans_facts.html:  When to Go  New Orleans' climate is influenced by its subtropical latitude and proximity to the Gulf of Mexico. It's hot, wet and sticky for most of the year - other times it's just wet. February through April is the best time to visit, when an easygoing climate coincides with the city's two most spectacular events, Mardi Gras and Jazz Fest. May sees the heat begin to intensify, and June marks the official beginning of hurricane season, which lasts through September. The oppressive heat and humidity of the summer months are a misery, driving many residents to the 'redneck Riviera' of gulf coast Mississippi.  If you're visiting in summer, prepare for the 'oven' effect of going from chilly air-conditioned interiors to overwhelmingly tropical 95 F (35 C) streets. September and October tend to be much more agreeable. Christmas is an off-peak period with discounted accommodations, although the winter temperatures during the large New Year's Eve celebration and the Sugar Bowl football game can be chilly.     Events  Booze, beads and bare-breasted revelers, right? Well, if you think that's all there is to Mardi Gras, then honey you're in for a treat. French for 'Fat Tuesday,' Mardi Gras is a Roman Catholic celebration ushering in the 40-day Lenten season before Easter. It takes place the day before Ash Wednesday, which can be any Tuesday from 3 February to 9 March, depending on the date of Easter. Seeing as Lent demands fasting from meat, Mardi Gras has always represented a last chance to indulge.  New Orleans' ribald version of the events include several weeks' worth of fun and fabulousness leading up to Mardi Gras. Though the big masquerade balls are often private affairs, there's no shortage of public parades and gatherings. The bacchanalian nightlife really starts to heat up about two weeks before Mardi Gras, with nonstop nonsense from the Thursday before. Don't even think of showing up without a costume of some sort - even a simple mask will transform you into a worthy party peer.  In homage to New Orleans' jazz traditions, on the 250th anniversary of the city's founding (1968), an all-star lineup of jazz-scene giants came together for the first ever New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival. A few years later, 'Jazz Fest' expanded to include two weekends in late April and early May and a variety of musical forms besides jazz. Today, Jazz Fest features music to suit just about anybody's tastes, with thousands of performers on more than 10 stages displaying styles ranging from big band to zydeco. The 'Heritage' portion of the title refers to the army of Louisianan arts, crafts and food purveyors gathered downtown at Armstrong Park. Do yourself a favor and arrive hungry - the food on offer is a festival unto itself. If you're new to the region, this is an excellent place to get your culinary bearings.  Other somewhat less boisterous celebrations include the Black Heritage Festival on the second weekend in March, the Tennessee Williams Literary Festival on the last weekend in March, the French Quarter Festival on the second weekend in April, the Greek Festival on Memorial Day weekend in May and the raucous riverfront Carnaval Latino on the last weekend in June. Independence Day (Fourth of July) features food and entertainment along the riverfront and star-studded musical performances at the Superdome, followed of course by a barrage of fireworks.    
north_america_new_orleans_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  French refugees from Nova Scotia (at the time known as Acadia) began arriving in New Orleans in 1755 after British seizure of French Canada. Mostly illiterate Catholic peasants, they soon found they were also unwelcome in New Orleans. Creole society banished them to the countryside west of the city, where most settled the upland prairie of Bayou Teche. Descendants of the Acadians, or Cajuns as they are now called, continue to occupy the area today, forming one of the nation's largest and most distinct cultural enclaves in one of its most exotic locales.  
north_america_new_york_city_activities.html:  Activities  Traffic and its attendant fumes are a serious disincentive to exercise-minded New Yorkers. However, if outdoor activity is your thing, there are a few options. The Chelsea Piers Complex on the Hudson River has interpretations of most sports, with a driving range, an indoor skating rink, a running track, swimming pool, workout center, beach volleyball (minus the ocean) and rock climbing. If you prefer to actually go somewhere when you're running, Central Park's six-mile roadway loops around the park and is closed to cars between 10am and 3pm weekdays and all weekend. The Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Reservoir has a soft 1.5 mile (2.5km) running track and there's a runner's pathway along the Hudson from 23rd St to Battery Park City.  You can rent bikes all over the city, but Central Park is the only traffic-free place to ride them. In-line skating is extremely popular, with Central Park (again) being the most popular place to show off your prowess. Although it's possible to fish in the Hudson, and although many people pull in a striped bass or two here, you'd have to be a float short of a tackle box to eat your catch.  
north_america_new_york_city_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Statue of Liberty, the most enduring symbol of New York City - and indeed, the USA - can trace its unlikely origins to a pair of Parisian Republicans. In 1865, political activist Edouard Rene Lefebvre de Laboulaye and sculptor Frederic-Auguste Bartholdi went to a dinner party and came away with the notion of building a monument honoring the American conception of political freedom, which they would then donate to the Land of Opportunity. Twenty-one years later, on 28 October 1886, the 151ft (45m) Liberty Enlightening the World, modeled on the Colossus of Rhodes, was finally unveiled in New York Harbor before President Grover Cleveland and a harbor full of tooting ships. It's a 354-step climb to the statue's crown, the equivalent of climbing a 22-story building, and if you want to tackle it, start early to avoid the crowds - it's hard to contemplate the American dream with your nose to the tail of the person in front.  
north_america_new_york_city_facts.html:  When to Go  New York is a year-round destination, so there isn't really an 'off-season' when local prices drop substantially. Winter bargains are sometimes available for airfares to the city and some major hotels offer packages during the slower months from January to mid-March.  If you want to base your decision solely on the weather, generally the nicest and most temperate time to visit is from mid-September to mid-October along with all of May and early June. Unfortunately, as these months are popular with tourists, hotel prices are scaled accordingly.     Events  Hardly a week goes by without a special event taking place in New York. In fact, there are some 50 officially recognized parades each year, along with more than 400 street fairs. Most of these fairs offer a rather unremarkable selection of fast-food stands, house plants, athletic socks and cheap belts, however, so don't go out of your way. Times Square's New Year's Eve festivities are probably the most famous in the world; less popular is the 5 mile (8km) midnight run in Central Park. On 5 January, thousands of children wander up 5th Ave, in a cavalcade of sheep, camels and donkeys, for the Three Kings Parade. The St Patrick's Day Parade down 5th Ave on 17 March has been held every year for 200 years.  In mid-May the International Food Fair clogs 9th Ave, while in June Tibetan Monks discuss transcendental matters in Central Park as part of Change Your Mind Day. The JVC Jazz Festival is also held in June, as is the free NY Shakespeare Festival, where some of the screen's biggest stars do the bard in Central Park.  On 4 July, Macy's sponsors an Independence Day fireworks spectacle in the East River. The city's premier black neighborhood celebrates Harlem Week in August, and on Labor Day over one million people take part in the Caribbean Day parade in Brooklyn, the biggest single event for the year. The New York Film Festival also takes place in September. Macy's Thanksgiving Parade in November is always popular, and for more festive cheer don't miss the Rockefeller Center Christmas Tree Lighting on the following Tuesday.    
north_america_new_york_city_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  From the working-class, urban clutter of Brooklyn to the sophisticated wineries of North Fork, Long Island is a study in geographic and economic contrasts. For most visitors, crossing the East River from Manhattan means a trip to the beach, whether the destination is crowded Jones Beach or Fire Island in Nassau, quiet Shelter Island or the showy Hamptons. You can get to Long Island on the Long Island Expressway from Manhattan or catch one of the many buses running from the East Side (the bus drivers know all the short cuts and may well get you there quicker than driving). A train also runs between Long Island and New York's Penn Station. There's plenty of public transport once you get there.  
north_america_oahu_activities.html:  Activities  Recreation breaks out in a sweat on water-worshipping Oahu, where the sea-related activities include swimming, surfing, boogie-boarding, windsurfing, ocean kayaking, snorkeling and diving. For dedicated beach-bums there are around 50 beach 'parks', half of them patrolled and most equipped with toilets and showers. Deep-sea fishing is also popular here, with black and Pacific blue marlin the favored catches.  Back on dry land there are numerous hiking possibilities, the most tramped being the crater-to-summit trail at Diamond Head, the scenic route around Kaena Point in the island's west, and the network of tracks threading Tantalus and the Makiki Heights just outside Honolulu. Running is pursued with vigor by locals and visitors alike, while golfers can wear their mismatched pastels on one of Oahu's busy courses.  
north_america_oahu_attractions.html:  Attractions  Honolulu ('Sheltered Bay'), the only city of any real size in Hawaii, was established in the early 19th century and now has a population nudging the 400,000 mark. Its considerable 150-year history as the state capital and beguiling multi-ethnicity can be fruitfully explored in the compact downtown area, a cluttered zone of historic buildings and skyscrapers that is unfriendly to cars due to the already heavy traffic and ultra-competitive parking environment, but a doddle for pedestrian explorers.  Downtown's prime historical attraction is Iolani Palace, a landmark reminder of Hawaii's royal bloodlines. Built in 1882 to serve as the regal residence of King Kalakaua and Queen Kapiolani, the palace became Hawaii's capitol (home of the state legislature) after the island kingdom was overthrown in 1893, and now welcomes tourists eager to see its carefully restored interior. A few blocks away is the oldest church on the island, Kawaiahao Church, built in 1842 using mighty coral slabs excavated from the local underwater reef. One of the several museums in the area worth investigating is the Hawaii Maritime Center, a harborside repository of seafaring stuff that includes the Falls of Clyde, reputedly the world's last intact four-masted, four-rigged ship.  Wafting over the downtown area from the north are the stomach-teasing aromas of the kitchens of Honolulu's frenetic, authentic Chinatown. Here you'll find a huge number of cheap Chinese restaurants, as well as practitioners of the Vietnamese, Thai and Filipino culinary arts. To prepare your own Chinese banquet, head for the innumerable food stalls of Oahu Market, where you can get everything from gingerroot to pig heads. To aid your digestion afterwards, wander through the tropical delights of the 14-acre (5.5-hectare) Foster Botanical Garden, planted by a German botanist in 1850.  
north_america_oahu_environment.html:  Environment  The eight major Pacific islands of Hawaii, of which 594-sq-mi (1540-sq-km) Oahu is the third largest and the most developed, have a total land area of 6467 sq mi (16,750 sq km). There are also 96 near-floating islands that collectively cover less than 3 sq mi (8 sq km), and another 33 rocks with a combined area of less than 5 sq mi (13 sq km) that are flung out over 1000mi (1600km) of ocean to the west of the main group. The nearest continental land mass is over 2480mi (4000km) away.  Like its siblings, Oahu is the tip of an underwater mountain, the result of volcanic activity under the Pacific Plate. The island is roughly shaped like an elephant's head, with the western Waianae Range forming the pachyderm's ear, and the long Koolau Range in the east forming the trunk - if you disbelieve the resemblance, just drain a few pi a coladas (rain optional) and then look at a map of the island. Oahu is skirted by dazzling beaches and underwater reefs. It also used to be covered in native forest, particularly sandalwood, but they were mostly leveled to make way for sugar and pineapple plantations, and more recently to address the lamentable shortage of golf courses (the island has a paltry 36 of them).  Tropical flowers love Oahu, especially hibiscus, of which there are several thousand varieties. Other native flora include pohuehue (a beachside morning glory); the koa tree, which can grow to 100ft (30m) high; and the yellow-orange ilima, the island's official bud. Local fauna includes the India-introduced myna bird, the Achatinella (tree snail), the Hawaiian monk seal, and, in winter, the giant humpback whale.  
north_america_oahu_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Health Risks: Sunstroke, dehydration, leptospirosis (freshwater bacterial disease) and ciguatera poisoning (due to eating ciguatoxin-affected fish)Time: GMT/UTC minus 10 hoursElectricity: 110/120V, 60 cycles When to Go  Visitors jet in to Oahu year-round, thanks to its consistently warm climate. But it's during the northern hemisphere winter that the island is at its busiest, an aberration due to the annual migratory patterns of people keen to escape the wintertime blues on their home turf. A visit between April and early December will ensure you avoid this winter influx, and also means you can make the most of the cheaper prices most hotels charge from spring through fall. Windsurfers will want to head over in summer when nature is at its most flatulent, while surfers will find that the biggest waves come rolling in over winter.  Oahu works on its tan pretty much all year, experiencing few climatic extremes (such as the odd winter storm) because of the moderating effect of ever-present trade winds. The average daily maximum temperature in Honolulu is 84 F (29 C) and the minimum is 70 F (21 C). The amount of rainfall increases the higher you climb on the island - Waikiki gets an annual average of only 25in(63.5cm), whereas the Upper Manoa Valley to the immediate north of Honolulu gets six times as much rain over the same period.     Events  The even spread of festivals and other celebratory events throughout the year reflect Oahu's cultural diversity and the local populace's understandable obsession with outdoor activities. Honolulu's Chinatown is the urban focal-point for Chinese New Year, heralded between mid-January and mid-February with traditional 'lion' dances, a cacophony of fireworks and the commencement of the five-week, self-infatuated Narcissus Festival. January also sees the Morey Bodyboards World Championship, when competitors tackle the near-perfect tubes of the famous Banzai Pipeline. The Cherry Blossom Festival in February is a month-long acknowledgment of the island's well-established Japanese culture.  The 50th State Fair runs over four weekends in May and June, with a multitude of games, rides and exhibitions featured at Aloha Stadium. Speaking of which, Aloha Week in September is when all things Hawaiian - from music to canoeing to hula dancing - are celebrated. November's Hawaii International Film Festival presents the refreshingly unblockbuster-like work of Pacific Rim and Asian filmmakers. Also beginning in November is the prestigious Triple Crown of Surfing, comprising three professional events on Oahu's surf-thumped north shore. In December, the Honolulu Marathon sees runners claiming the city's streets during the USA's second-biggest running event.   There's no shortage of public holidays to enjoy the idyllic weather and waves. The year kicks off with New Year's Day and is soon followed by Martin Luther King Jr Day on the third Monday of January. On the third Monday in February Presidents' Day gives Hawaiians another chance to take in the rays, but they have to wait until late March or April for Easter weekend. The last Monday in May honors US soldiers killed in battle with Memorial Day. Get ready for some big fireworks displays no matter where you are on 4th July Independence Day. On the first Monday in September another long weekend is created by Labor Day and the second Monday in October remembers the great discovery of the US on Columbus Day. During election years there is a bonus Election Day across Hawaii on the second Tuesday of November. The 11 November salutes America's former soldiers with Veterans' Day and the fourth Thursday in November is that family-oriented holiday Thanksgiving. The year rounds off with a public holiday on the 25 December for Christmas Day.    
north_america_oahu_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  From November to February, world-famously huge waves - some in the legendary order of 50ft (15m) high - break along Oahu's relatively untrammeled north shore, where they're greeted by an enthusiastic community of surfing dudes and dudettes, and just as enthusiastic onlookers. Sunset Beach is one of the three prime surfing locations in the area - the others are the Banzai Pipeline off Ehukai Beach, and Waimea. The challenging breaks at Sunset Beach play a key role in the annual Triple Crown of Surfing, one of the most hotly contested and lucrative events on the competitive surfing calendar. The big surf break called Backyards, at the northern end of the beach, is also popular with windsurfers.  Though the size of its waves lend it a fearsome reputation, Sunset Beach is a pretty low-key place when not packed to the dunes with surfies, and the surrounding area offers some decent swimming and snorkeling over summer when the swells and rips die down a bit. Every weekend in the peak surf season, convoys of spectators motor up to the north shore from Honolulu - if you're there in winter, it's best to visit on a weekday.  
north_america_orlando_activities.html:  Activities  If Disney rides don't fall within your idea of a workout, try hiking in Wekiwa Springs State Park, a 7000 acre (2800 hectare) piece of land a few miles north of Orlando with 13 miles (21km) of hiking trails. In Ocala National Forest, the Salt Springs area has a splendid 2-mile (3km) loop trail through a cypress forest. A 66 mile (106km) section of the Florida National Scenic Trail runs right through the Juniper Springs area. The 5 mile (8km) Cruickshank Trail surrounds a shallow marsh within the Space Coast's Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge. It begins along Black Point Wildlife Drive.  Places to canoe include the Wekiwa Springs State Park, the Ocala National Forest and Mosquito Lagoon in the Canaveral National Seashore. There's good swimming in the Ocala National Forest at Juniper Springs, Alexander Springs, Clearwater Lake and Lake Dorr. You can also swim in Blue Spring State Park's 72 F (22 C) crystal-clear waters when no manatees are present. Apollo Beach and Klondike Beach at the northern end of Merritt Island have gentle surf and soft sand.  
north_america_orlando_attractions.html:  Attractions  If you're looking for Walt Disney World, look again - it's located in the entirely separate city of Lake Buena Vista. Believe it or not, Orlando's a city in its own right, and the locals would feel just fine, thank you very much, if all those ear-wearing yahoos would just get back in their cars and keep moving (except, of course, when they spend their money here).  Once the outta-town attractions are pared away, Orlando's main distractions comprise the Harry P Leu Gardens, an estate with over 2000 varieties of camellia and an 18th century mansion; the Orlando Science Center, which has a gator hole and the physics-phriendly Tunnel of Discovery; and the Orlando Museum of Art, which showcases Mayan archeological finds. Given these heart-pounding highlights, most visitors use Orlando as a base from which to make excursions to nearby theme parks.  
north_america_orlando_facts.html:  When to Go  Orlando is popular year round. January is the coldest month, if you consider a low of 50 F (10 C) and a high around 70 F (22 C) cold. July and August are very hot and humid, with highs around 90 F (33 C), 95% humidity and frequent downpours. This is also when kids are out of school for summer vacation, which leads to long, sweaty queues at the theme parks. Weather-wise, early autumn is best. At the theme parks, weekends tend to be less crowded than the beginning of the week. As far as accommodations go, the cheapest time to visit is from early August to mid-December; the most expensive is during the Christmas and Easter holiday periods.     Events  Orlando's festivals are not exactly major league, though it must be hard to organize a brouhaha in the shadow of a theme park that wants you to believe that every day's a holiday. The Silver Spurs Rodeo has been putting on a fine show since 1944, drawing 50,000 spectators and some of the top rodeo athletes to Orlando in mid-February and again in July. It's the largest rodeo in the eastern US.   EPCOT International Flower & Garden Festival is a big to-do at Disney World in mid to late April. The highlight of October is the Oldsmobile Scramble, when 100,000 amateur golfers putt it out at the Walt Disney World Resort. The Oldsmobile Classic for pros follows.    
north_america_orlando_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  To some people, the finest words ever spoken by an American were Neil Armstrong's 'One small step for man, one giant leap for mankind,' spoken as he became the first man to walk on the moon in 1969. Since then, we Earthlings have had a longstanding love affair with space travel and the scientists who make it possible. There's no better place to stand in awe of the 'right stuff' than the Kennedy Space Center, off the coast of central Florida.  The center draws 2 million people a year to its Gallery of Spaceflight, packed with real spacecraft and scale models. It was established in 1958, when the National Aeronautics & Space Administration (NASA) started Project Mercury to compete with the Soviets' successful launch of Sputnik. The US started launching its spaceships from Cape Canaveral, a stone's throw from the Kennedy Space Center, because of its weather, its proximity to the ocean (for splash landings) and the huge, unpopulated tracts of land available to the government for testing. Mercury was succeeded by Project Gemini, then Project Apollo, which landed a man on the moon. The Space Coast still maintains facilities for unmanned and space shuttle launches.  Titusville, the main gateway to the Kennedy Space Center and the wildlife refuge, hosts the Astronaut Hall of Fame, dedicated to exhibiting every detail of the astronauts' lives and boasting a shuttle-landing simulator ride and G-force trainer. Titusville also has excellent vantage points from which to watch shuttle launches.  The Kennedy Space Center is on Merritt Island, on the eastern side of the Intracoastal Waterway (called Indian River here). The NASA Causeway is the main east-west thoroughfare and begins at the junction of Highway 405 and Highway 1. The Banana River separates the main Kennedy Space Center complex from Cape Canaveral, the site of the first launches of the US space program. You'll need a car to get to the Space Coast. Greyhound buses only get as close as Titusville, 7 miles (11km) west of the Space Center, off Highway 405.  
north_america_philadelphia_activities.html:  Activities  The huge Fairmount Park is the city's main center for outdoor activities and the world's largest landscaped urban park. With around 100 miles (161km) of jogging and cycling paths and the Schuylkill River and Wissahickon Creek within its borders, the park is popular with city residents looking for a breath of fresh air. Rowing and canoeing are popular on the Schuylkill.   Hiking doesn't get much better than it is in Poconos' Delaware Water Gap, which includes 25 miles (40km) of the Appalachian Trail. The Switchback Gravity Railroad Trail, an abandoned railroad bed in Lehigh Gorge State Park (part of the Poconos) is great for mountain biking. There's good sailing on Mauch Chunk Lake and Lake Wallenpaupeck, both in the Poconos.  
north_america_philadelphia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Independence Park is an L-shaped area west of the Delaware River that features Philadelphia's most renowned historical sites. Called the birthplace of American government, Independence Hall was built between 1732 and 1756 as Pennsylvania State House, the colony's headquarters. One of the country's best examples of Georgian architecture, its simple, understated lines also show the Quaker influence of Philadelphia's early days. The Second Continental Congress later met here from 1775 to 1783. The Assembly Room is where the delegates from the 13 colonies met to approve the Declaration of Independence on 4 July 1776; where the design of the US flag was agreed upon in 1777; where the Articles of the Confederation were drafted in 1781; and where the Constitutional Convention was held in 1787, producing the US Constitution.  Beside Pennsylvania State House is Congress Hall, where the US Congress met between 1790 and 1800 when Philadelphia was the nation's capital. Here, the Bill of Rights, the first 10 amendments, were added to the Constitution, the US Mint was established, George Washington was inaugurated for his second term and Kentucky, Tennessee and Vermont were admitted to the Union. Nearby, Independence Square is where the Declaration of Independence was read publicly for the first time on 8 July 1776.   Liberty Bell Pavilion is Philadelphia's top tourist attraction. Commissioned to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Charter of Privileges (Pennsylvania's constitution, enacted in 1701 by William Penn) this 2080lb (936kg) bronze bell's inscription reads: 'Proclaim liberty through all the land, to all the inhabitants thereof.' The bell was secured in the belfry of Independence Hall and tolled on important occasions, most notably the first public reading of the Declaration of Independence in Independence Square. The bell became badly cracked during the 19th century; despite initial repairs it eventually became unusable in 1846 after tolling for George Washington's birthday.  Near to Independence Hall is Franklin Court, Ben Franklin's home and workplace. An underground museum on the site displays Franklin's various inventions, including a heat-efficient stove to warm houses. The National Portrait Gallery was the second bank of the US until 1836, when it was dissolved by President Andrew Jackson. It now houses several pieces of art by Charles Wilson Peale, America's top portraitist at the time of the American Revolution. Other exhibits include a copy of the first edition of the Declaration of Independence and early prints of Philadelphia from when it was the nation's capital.  
north_america_philadelphia_facts.html:  When to Go  Philadelphia can get unbearably humid in the summer and freezing cold in the winter, making spring and fall, which are generally characterized by warm days and cool nights, the best time to visit the city. If you can stand the crowds, Philadelphia comes alive with patriotic frenzy and fireworks every 4th of July (Independence Day).     Events   Mummers Parade on New Year's Day sees 30,000 men wearing sequins, feathers, makeup and risque costumes spectacularly strut their way around town accompanied by accordions and glockenspiels. The event's been taking place since the 1700s. Penn Relays in April is one of the world's oldest, largest and best amateur athletic carnivals, held at the University of Pennsylvania. The Jambalaya Jam in May is a 3-day celebration of Creole and Cajun food and New Orleans music at Penn's Landing. You better believe that the birthplace of the Declaration of Independence gets down on Independence Day; the Philadelphia Freedom Festival sets off fireworks, parades and concerts during the first week of July.    
north_america_philadelphia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Valley Forge was the site of the US Army's renowned winter encampment from 19 December 1777 to 19 June 1778, while the British occupied Philadelphia (then the capital of the new nation) during the War of Independence. Not a battlefield, the site is held as a symbol of bravery and endurance - 2000 of George Washington's 12,000 troops perished because of freezing temperatures, hunger and disease. Despite such losses, the army was reorganized and emerged to eventually defeat the British. The British withdrew in 1778 after the Articles of Confederation were approved by Congress and Americans made an alliance with the French. Important sights include the National Memorial Arch to the soldiers who endured that winter and the Monument to Patriots of African Descent, a bronze statue honoring the 5000 blacks who died in the war.  Valley Forge is 20 miles (32km) northwest of downtown Philadelphia. You can get there via a 40-minute bus trip from downtown; by car take the Schuylkill Expressway (I-76) west.  
north_america_phoenix_activities.html:  Activities  Covering 25 sq miles (65 sq km), Phoenix South Mountain Park is the largest city park in the US, providing over 40 miles (65km) of trails for hiking and mountain biking. There are also good views and scores of Indian petroglyphs to admire. The park is on one of the lower ranges surrounding the valley, with South Mountain topping the landscape at 2690ft (820m). It's situated about 8 miles (13km) south of downtown Phoenix.  Just in case you'd doubt the valley's cowpoke roots, there are almost 40 horseback riding outfits listed in the Phoenix yellow pages. Short rides, often combined with a country breakfast or barbecue cookout, are popular activities, and overnight packing trips can be arranged. And if riding the range doesn't sate the desperado in you, drop by the local shooting and archery ranges for a whiff of gunsmoke and quiverful of release.  Serious golf players probably already know that the valley, despite its desert digs, is a major American golfing center with about 100 greens - from 'pitch and putt' to PGA championship courses.  One great way to chill out in summer is inner tubing down the Salt River, which cuts through Phoenix just south of downtown. Several companies will give you information, rent tubes and provide shuttles to good places to begin your float. Tubing season is mid-April through September, and weekends draw crowds of people bent on cooling off and partying on.  Dozens of companies offer hot-air balloon flights over the valley. Flights usually lift off in the calm morning air, drift for about an hour and top off with a traditional champagne brunch.  
north_america_phoenix_attractions.html:  Attractions  A one-stop shop for learning about Southwest Indian tribes' history, arts and culture, the Heard Museum is touted for quality rather than quantity. Sure, there are thousands of exhibits, but these are so well laid out (in so relatively small a space) that a visit is much more relaxing than the torturous schleps of most major museums. The Heard's kachina doll collection is outstanding, as are the audiovisual displays, live demonstrations and bookshop, which has the area's best - albeit priciest - selection of Native American arts and crafts. The Heard is on the northern outskirts of downtown, about 4 miles (7km) from the capitol.  
north_america_phoenix_facts.html:  When to Go  From September through April, Phoenix enjoys mild weather and cultural events aplenty. Autumn is the choicest time to visit weather-wise, though the early months of spring have all the best festivals. Those hardy souls who brave a visit in summer can witness the mercury riding above 100 F (38 C) for weeks on end, commonly climbing well over 110 F (43 C) in midsummer. Summer is also monsoon season, when late afternoon thunderstorms blast the area and flash flooding becomes a concern for hikers. During the hottest spells, nobody does much of anything during daylight hours unless they're in an air-conditioned zone.     Events  While the period from October to May is dotted with community events in Phoenix, the city comes to a cultural standstill during the searing summer. One of the region's biggest parades kicks off the Fiesta Bowl college football game on New Year's Day at the ASU Sun Devil Stadium. Late January and early February catch residents of Scottsdale dusting off their chaps and Stetsons for a string of rodeos, hoedowns, Pony Express reenactments and an All-Arabian Horse Show. The Heard Museum hosts the Guild Indian Fair and Market during the first weekend in March, where you can eat Native American food and peruse top-quality arts and crafts. In mid-March, the Phoenix Rodeo of Rodeos is held at the Veterans Memorial Coliseum. The costumed Yaqui Indian Easter Ceremonies are held Friday afternoons during Lent in the main plaza of the village of Guadalupe, just south of Tempe. The Arizona State Fair takes place in the last two weeks of October.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day Third Monday in January - Martin Luther King Day Third Monday in February - Presidents Day Last Monday in May - Memorial Day 4 July - Independence Day First Monday in September - Labor Day Second Monday in October - Columbus Day 11 November - Veterans Day Fourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving Day 25 December - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to PhoenixTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_phoenix_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  If the strip-mall chintz of small-town Arizona leaves you dry, drop in on Flagstaff, a cultural oasis in an otherwise arid landscape. The historic downtown area, harking back to the town's early days as a railroad whistle stop, comes as a welcome relief from the region's dusty motels and truckstop diners. In this neighborhood, antique inns sidle up against vegetarian cafes and you're more likely to hear strains of a local jazz combo than any rumble of RV traffic. And as the novelty of nontouristy downtown wears thin, there's always a visit to the Lowell Observatory, where in 1930 the planet Pluto was discovered, or a stroll through the 200 blissfully green acres (80ha) of the local arboretum. Flagstaff is also the region's gateway city to the Grand Canyon and - nostalgic Nat 'King' Cole fans take note - a stop along historic Route 66.  From Phoenix, you can drive north to Flagstaff in under three hours along I-17. The cities are also connected by daily flights and buses. From Flagstaff, the southern rim of the Grand Canyon is more than 100 miles (160km) distant, which makes daytrips to the canyon from Phoenix impractical.  
north_america_portland_activities.html:  Activities  If you're outdoorsy, then you've come to the right place. With access to some of Oregon's best wilderness, there's plenty of hiking to be done - even the city's Forest Park has over 50mi (80km) of trails. Handy to downtown Portland, Washington Park has the Wildwood Trail that starts at the zoo and goes through 30mi (48km) of forest. The Columbia River offers up excellent windsurfing conditions, and the Pacific's beaches are around 90 minutes to the west.  Oregan's big drawcard, however, is Mt Hood, the state's highest peak that is the world's most climbed peak after Mt Fuji. The mountain has great skiing, tubing and snowboarding especially at Mt Hood SkiBowl, the largest night-ski area in the US, and at the year-round skiing center, Timberline. Around the mountain, there's plenty of opportunities to go cross-country skiing and, if you really want to work those legs, snowshoeing. Still haven't got enough of the winter sports? Well, there's also ice-climbing, best between May and September with several guides on hand.  The Pacific Nortwest is a magnet for freshwater fishing with rivers replete with trout, steelhead and sturgeon to tighten your line. For dirty, but decent mountain biking check out the old dirt logging roads in Forest Park for off-road action.  
north_america_portland_attractions.html:  Attractions  The tattered-on-the-edges Old Town was the core of 1890s Portland, and its popularity has returned in recent years as a set for period movies. Despite the best plans of the city elders, Old Town resists gentrification. Missions for the homeless coexist with galleries, fine restaurants and specialty shops.  Rail travelers shouldn't be the only ones to enjoy the beautiful Italianate Union Station. Built in 1890, the spacious marble-walled train station near the corner of NW 6th Ave and Irving St is one of the city's landmarks.  Contiguous with Old Town is Portland's Chinatown. Chinatown Gates, at the corner of NW 4th Ave and Burnside St, announce the old Asian businesses that have thrived in this neighborhood since the 1880s. In addition to a bevy of local-favorite Chinese restaurants, there are scads of gift shops and Asian groceries, and even chinoiserie-topped telephone boxes.  
north_america_portland_facts.html:  When to Go  Contrary to the city's rain-soaked image, average precipitation in Portland is only around 35in (890mm) a year, less than Atlanta or Houston. The summer months (June through August) mark the driest period, averaging about an inch (25mm) of rain per month, while November through January average some 6in (150mm) each month - hardly the deluge the rumors lead us to expect. Winter low temperatures hover around 35 F (2 C), and summer highs seldom surpass 85 F (30 C), so really anytime of fine as far as the weather's concerned. The prime tourist seasons seem to be whenever the city's at its driest.  Portland's festivals seem to stack up, one atop the other, during the summertime, although one of the big draws for young hipsters, the North by Northwest (NXNW) music fest, doesn't come around until fall.     Events  The city's doyen of festivals and its oldest civic event is the Portland Rose Festival, held in early June. The beautiful floral display at the International Rose Test Gardens is the nominal excuse for nearly two weeks of festivities, but the real focus of events are the parades (the Grand Floral is the second-largest floral parade in the nation), the riverfront carnival, immense naval ships docked right downtown and the crowning of the Rose Queen.  Portland's most important and noted musical festival is the Chamber Music Northwest series, a season of chamber music concerts held at both Reed College campus and at Catlin-Gable School. In early July, the Waterfront Blues Festival brings life to downtown's riverside park. In early August, the Mt Hood Jazz Festival attracts nationally recognized artists to Mt Hood Community College in Gresham, 12mi (20km) east of Portland. The latest alternative rock bands hit Portland in mid-September for North by Northwest (NXNW), a spinoff of the famous South by Southwest music festival in Austin, Texas. Over 200 bands from across the US and Canada converge for a wicked weekend of nonstop gigging.  Portland's Gay Pride Parade & Celebration takes place in late June and attracts 10,000 participants. In late July, the region's brewers take over the waterfront festival grounds for the Oregon Brewers Festival. Stay late for live music. A celebration of Portland's restaurants, The Bite, takes place in August on the Waterfront. Eat your fill and then rock out to local bands late into the night.  Public Holidays include: New Year's Day (January 1), Martin Luther King Jr Day (third Monday in January), Presidents' Day (third Monday in February), Easter (late March or April), Memorial Day (last Monday in May), Independence Day (July 4), Labor Day (first Monday in September), Columbus Day (second Monday in October), Veterans' Day (November 11), Thanksgiving (fourth Thursday in November), and Christmas Day (December 25).    
north_america_portland_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The International Rose Test Gardens is one of the main reasons behind Portland's 'Rose City' moniker. Among the nation's oldest rose gardens, the park sprawls across acres of manicured lawns, fountains and flower beds. More than just a beautiful public park, the rose gardens are also the testing grounds for the American Rose Society and All-American Rose selections. Over 400 rose varieties are contained in the permanent gardens, including many old and rare varieties. From June to September, the scent and colors are seductively overpowering.  
north_america_puerto_vallarta_activities.html:  Activities  The waters of the bay are ideally suited to activities like water skiing, snorkelling, diving, windsurfing, sailing, parasailing, fishing and swimming, with a fair number of operators in Puerto Vallarta busily supplying equipment and organising tours. There are also regular cruises that circumnavigate the bay or will beach you at Yelapa and Playa de las Animas. Animal watching is another popular local activity, with dolphins and humpback whales receiving the most attention. Back on shore, horse-riding and trekking outfits can guide you from local beaches up along jungle trails and into the mountains, plus there are several golf courses and tennis courts for less-adventurous work-outs. If you want to exercise your tongue, take a Spanish language course.  
north_america_puerto_vallarta_attractions.html:  Attractions  Though Puerto Vallarta is now dominated by its modernistic, resort-stacked beaches and cafe-society embellishments, there are enough of the old red-roofed adobe houses lining the streets and cobblestones underfoot to keep alive the spirit of a once-charming seaside village. To get a sense of the more-established parts of the centre, stroll a block east of the pedestrian-tramped Plaza Principal to the towering facade of the city's landmark cathedral, Templo de Guadalupe, built in 1951 and adorned with the replica of a crown worn by an 18th-century Mexican empress. Backtrack across the square to the arches of the outdoor amphitheatre on the bay.  Meandering its way north from the amphitheatre is the Malec n, a long seaside walkway adorned with a larger-than-life seahorse statue, a plethora of drinking dens, and plenty of places catering to la comida (the main meal of the day, usually served between 1pm and 3-4pm) and la cena (the typically lighter evening meal). Those who feel like stuffing a cylindrical wad of tobacco leaves into their craw will find several Cuban cigar bars on this strip that cater to their habit.  Wedged into the mouth of the R o Cuale, the slender river that divides the city into its distinctive northern and southern swathes, is the two-hectare (5-acre) Isla Cuale. This diminutive island is littered with restaurants and shops, the latter mostly specialising in clothes and local arts - for some good deals on Mexico's outstanding range of artesan as (handicrafts), cross over to the north bank of the R o Cuale where you'll find the 150-stall market called Mercado Municipal. At the island's western, Pacific-viewing end is a tiny, lush botanical garden and the equally tiny Museo del Cuale, which features a collection of pre-Hispanic archaeological artefacts from tombs cracked open throughout Jalisco state, as well as in the neighbouring states of Colima and Nayarit.  Puerto Vallarta garners more cultural credentials with its impressive array of art galleries. Most have an emphasis on contemporary Latin American painting and sculpture, and exhibit local, regional and national artistry - local examples include the angelic portraiture of Manuel Lepe, and the colourful creative toil of Huichol Indians who live in the rangy mountains of the nearby Sierra Madre Occidental.  
north_america_puerto_vallarta_facts.html:  When to Go  It will come as no surprise to hear that Puerto Vallarta becomes a seething mass of relaxation-seeking humanity during the country's peak holiday months of July and August - that's literally seething, as this is smack in the middle of the climatic period from May to September when heat and humidity blanket the coastal lowlands of southern Mexico. Other times you'll find yourself enjoying too much company and stratospheric room prices are from mid-December to early January, and the weeks book-ending Easter.     Events  Each February in odd-numbered years the Regatta Marina del Rey-Puerto Vallarta, a celebrated boat race from California's Marina del Rey to the docks of the Mexican resort, sails by. The anniversary of the resurrection of that Jesus bloke - Semana Santa (Easter week) - is the signal for the beaches and bars of Puerto Vallarta to go into full-on party mode. May is the month of Fiestas de Mayo, when the city celebrates itself via concerts, art exhibits, sports events and carnivals. Festivities also rack the city in early December when Mexico's patron saint, the Virgen de Guadalupe, has her day out on the town.  If you're not a big fan of mariachi performances, the spirited and mostly trumpet-driven renditions of Mexican ballads by sombrero-topped musicians, then avoid town on 22 November when the genre's patron saint is loudly toasted during D a de Santa Cecilia. November is also when deep-sea fishing enthusiasts cruise over for an international Torneo de Pesca, with sailfish, marlin and sea bass high on the sporting menu.    
north_america_puerto_vallarta_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The small, relaxed beachside village of Sayulita, 35km (22mi) north of Puntas Arenas and just around the rocky claw of Punta (Point) Villeta from Bah a de Banderas, is the place sought out by sand-dwellers and surfers once the exuberant gloss of resort life has rubbed a bit thin. An unobtrusive town on a magnificent shade-soaked beach backed by iconic coconut palms, Sayulita balances out its dearth of city ruckus with a laidback feel and an oversupply of outdoor activities.  Several places in the town centre rent out bicycles and surfboards, and organise regional expeditions to indulge in diving, snorkelling, horse riding and kayaking. You can also go trekking in the authentically exotic jungle that lies along the coast and inland towards Tepic, the capital of Nayarit state in which Sayulita lies. Sayulita is an hour's bus ride from Puerto Vallarta and there are up to 10 services a day between the two destinations.  
north_america_quebec_city_activities.html:  Activities  If you prefer to spend your leisure time outdoors, there are more than a few options to leave you feeling indecisive. The snug central cityscape is custom-made for walking, whether your feet carry you along the restaurant and bar-hemmed boulevards of the newer parts of the city, side-step you through the crowds trying to make their way up and down the cape's narrowest lanes, or join one of the many organised walking tours (thematic excursions range from 'Parks of the City' to the more appealing 'Vice and Drunkenness'). Those who like to watch can feast their eyes on hockey, cycling and canoeing events around the capital. Alternatively you can have your own adrenalin rush, particularly in winter when skating, snowboarding and downhill and cross-country skiing are the coolest endeavours.  Fans of the great indoors can stagger between bars on Rue St Jean, go clubbing on Grande Allee, or immerse themselves in performing arts at places like Grand The tre de Quebec (in St Jean Baptiste) or The tre de la Bordee (at the western end of Old Town).  
north_america_quebec_city_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Upper Town is where the old fortified part of Quebec City - the enchanting and exceedingly tourist-friendly Old Town - chooses to live. The main structure in this wall-encircled chunk of historical real estate is La Citadelle, a hefty asymmetrical fort that began to take its irregular shape when the French started building storage facilities for gunpowder in 1750, and which was completed 70 years later by the British as they readied themselves for an American attack. Nowadays, The Citadel is home to a long-serving Canadian regiment called the Royal 22s and also to several military museums. Stretching southwest of the fort is the 108-hectare (267-acre) Battlefields Park (Parc des Champs de Bataille), a pleasant swathe of green that caters to in-line skaters, cyclists, skiers and strollers. The large slice of turf nearest the cliffs is called the Plains of Abraham and it was here that the British won a famous victory over the French in 1759. Also inside the park boundary is the Musee du Quebec, with a highly regarded collection of provincial art from the likes of painter Jean-Paul Riopelle and sculptor Louis-Philippe Hebert.  There are several theologically rich sites in the Upper Town, including the Ursuline Convent & Museum, a restored estate that invites sightseers into the 17th and 18th-century lives of the Ursuline sisterhood; the Musee des Augustines, which concerns itself with the efforts of three pioneering nuns who offered salvation to a harsh Quebec in 1639; and the handsome Anglican Cathedral of the Holy Trinity, built in 1804 to a template provided by London's St Martin in the Fields. Le Ch teau Frontenac is a glorious landmark hotel with a stately medieval tower, built to service the luxurious demands of late 19th-century clientele and still accommodating wealthy patrons into the 21st. Behind the hotel is Terrasse Dufferin, a crowded cliff-top esplanade where Quebec City pedestrians sociably collide. If you want to see more of the Old Town, it's possible to do a 4.6km (2.8mi) circumnavigation of the district along the tops of the weathered ramparts that encircle it.  
north_america_quebec_city_facts.html:  When to Go  This historic, charming and lively city snaffles visitors year-round (in excess of four million rubberneckers annually), even in the middle of winter when local tourism operators start handing out downhill and cross-country skis, and when classical delights like opera and ballet take to the stage. The crowds are at their most bustling throughout summer (June through August), particularly over the last two weeks of July when Canadian factory workers and other heavy-industry personnel traditionally lay down their tools and take a long lunch. Another peak period is the week in mid-March when elementary and high-school students are dragged screaming from their classes to endure the annual family holiday, which in Quebec City often means a pilgrimage to nearby le d'Orleans.  During summer, the temperature in Quebec City fluctuates between 10 C (50 F) and 30 C (86 F). Winter temperatures average between -25 C (-13 F) and -5 C (23 F), which obviously calls for some major rugging-up if you're venturing outside. Rainfall is highest over summer; if you can't figure out when snowfalls are at their greatest, you shouldn't be travelling.     Events  The largest singular event on the city's social calendar is the Winter Carnival, reputedly the biggest annual event of its kind in the world and one of the reasons why Quebec City gets as jammed with people in the dead (or perhaps life) of winter as it does in summer. The carnival frolics its way through the first half of February, featuring parades, ice sculptures, dances, a snow slide that sets up on Terrasse Dufferin, and the vigorous downing of locally brewed beers like St Ambroise and Boreale. The master of ceremonies since the festival began in 1954 has been a snow-bloated and highly merchandised character called Bonhomme, who allegedly snowshoes in from a place called Knulandis (possibly an Arctic tax haven) and appears around town dressed only in a red hat and a jolly grin.  The coming of spring is heralded in March with the Festival de la Neige, which is basically an excuse to resume drinking after the Winter Carnival hangover has subsided. The F te Nationale de la St Jean Baptiste continues well into the night of 23 June, making the most of the fact that 24 June has been declared a public holiday in honour of the saint. More seasonal celebrations take place in the first few weeks of June with the numerous free concerts and theatrical performances of the Summer Festival. At the end of July is Les Grands Feux Loto-Quebec, a fireworks spectacular, while August sees the five-day, biennial Medieval Festival (it takes place in odd-numbered years) and the large-scale, self-promoting Quebec City Provincial Exhibition (Expo Quebec). Gays and lesbians let it all hang out during the annual Divers Cite parade that takes place in early September.    
north_america_quebec_city_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  In 1832, a group of British soldiers returned to Quebec City from a stint in India and unknowingly introduced the populace to cholera - around 3500 people (or 10% of the population) subsequently died. To prevent such scourges, the local authorities set up a quarantine station on Grosse le, a small island in the St Lawrence River to the city's east. The station handled mainly European immigrants, processing over four million people before its closure in 1937. One of its busiest periods was during the 1840s, when the Irish potato famine drove 100,000 people to Canada, 7500 of whom died on Grosse le of typhus.  Since 1994 it's been possible to take guided tours of Grosse le to inspect the old disinfection chambers, hospital, cemetery and immigrants' living quarters. The tours are conducted from a marina in the village of Berthier sur Mer, which is located on the southern bank of the St Lawrence roughly 60km (37mi) from Quebec City. Grosse le floats just off the north-eastern corner of the much larger  le d'Orleans, a highly popular holiday destination due to its centuries-old cottages and manors, abundant galleries of island art, and lovely river-enhanced scenery.  
north_america_reno_activities.html:  Activities  Lake Tahoe, near Reno, is Nevada's premier recreation area for skiing (cross-country and downhill), boating and fishing. Other popular fishing spots are Pyramid Lake, for its Lahontan cutthroat trout, and the Truckee River, right in the center of town (you'll need to get a license from a sports store first).  Reno is also a center for sky sports, and hosts big airplane and balloon races every September. If you want to sport among the clouds, there are plenty of commercial balloon and airplane operators in Reno and at Minden, about 50mi (80km) further south.  
north_america_reno_attractions.html:  Attractions  When Las Vegas was just a blip in the desert, Reno was serving up a tantalizing mixture of sex, liquor and chance. Its glittering prizes may be outshone these days, but plenty of folks still visit in the hope of a date with Lady Luck. Most of Reno's casinos are downtown, in the North Virginia St area. Casinos here are much more business-like than those in Las Vegas - the 'theme casino' is just starting to make its presence felt, and you're much more likely to be offered a combination of gambling and occasional entertainment than a three-ring circus with dancing girls. The venerable Harrah's is one such traditional casino, still one of the biggest and fanciest, and one of the best places to watch a lot of people lose a lot of money. If you insist on gimmicks, Circus Circus has Vegas-style circus acts, while Silver Legacy Resort has an imitation mining rig with a sound and light show.  Out in the suburbs, Peppermill wows the punters with psychedelic decor, and Fun Quest gets them in early with a superb video arcade. If your interest in gambling is purely academic, take a tour with the Reno-Tahoe Gaming Academy, who'll give you all the inside info as well as teaching you the ins and outs of your favorite games.  
north_america_reno_facts.html:  When to Go  Any time is a good time to visit Reno (especially if you'll be spending most of your time in climate-controlled casinos), although winter can get mighty chilly. Temperatures in July climb up to 90 F (32 C), while in January the daytime temperature is around 40 F (4 C). Snow is no surprise in winter - nevada means snowy in Spanish - but rain is far less frequent. If you want to avoid the hordes, keep in mind that school vacations are from early June to early September, and around Christmas and Easter. From Memorial Day to Labor Day prices will be higher and hotel beds will be harder to come by.     Events  Like any place trying to drum up its tourist trade, Reno has a full-to-bursting calendar of special events. Those that look most interesting are also those that pack the hotels, so plan accordingly. The Reno Rodeo, one of the country's largest, fills the Livestock Events Center with bucking broncos and bruised cowpokes from 17 to 25 June. Things heat up even more for Hot August Nights, a series of parades and concerts celebrating the cars and music of the '50s and '60s. At the end of August, the Nevada State Fair has, well, all the fun of the fair: rides, games and heaps of cattle. In September, Reno's skies come alive with the world's longest-running (flying?) airshow, the National Championship Air Races.    
north_america_reno_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Along the Nevada shore of Lake Tahoe, about 20mi (35km) southwest of Reno, you'll find a handful of lakeside communities that buzz with tourist activity. The excellent Lake Tahoe State Park spans most of the ridge along Lake Tahoe's eastern shore, and has some top beaches and lakes as well as miles of trails. Many of the beach spots are undeveloped, and you'll have to do a bit of asking around to find the best ones. Spooner Lake, at the southern end of the park, has the best facilities and the most park information. The lake is stocked with trout and has restrooms, picnic facilities and a cross-country ski area with 56mi (91km) of groomed trails, including one that goes around the edge of the lake.   Incline Village is an enclave of million-dollar homes and private beach clubs, with a lovely bike path that's good for a ride and a rubberneck. The Incline Championship Golf Course is one of the best on the lake, and Incline's Diamond Peak has several intermediate downhill ski runs. South of the village, Ponderosa Ranch is a worn-out piece of Western Americana. This is where Bonanza was filmed, and it's now home to a wild west theme park, with barns full of old props, a staged gunfight on Main Street, a petting zoo, a shooting gallery, and a 10-gallon-hatful of stores and restaurants.  If it weren't for the swarms of summer tourists, Sand Harbor, on the lake's northeastern shore, would be heaven. Two sand spits have formed a beautiful shallow bay with brilliant turquoise water and white sand beaches. Diver's Cove, a popular scuba spot, is at the northern end. There are lifeguards, restrooms, snack stands and boat rentals, and in summer the harbor hosts a reputable season of Shakespeare on the sand.  
north_america_salt_lake_city_activities.html:  Activities  The Wasatch Range overlooking Salt Lake City provides world class downhill skiing. Four alpine ski resorts, Snowbird, Alta, Solitude and Brighton, are less than 30 miles (50km) from downtown; all offer runs for a range of skiing abilities. Several other resorts are less than an hour's drive away, notably those clustered around Park City. The four closest resorts all offer accommodation, but you could also use Salt Lake City as a base and ski at a different resort every day of the week. The best cross-country skiing is at Solitude. A snow bus operates from Salt Lake City to all four nearby resorts throughout the mid-November to early-May season; if you're driving, note that snow tires or chains are required.  The mountains also provide excellent summer hiking and camping, especially in Little Cottonwood Canyon, where the Snowbird ski resort is located. Good hiking trails include the White Pine Lake Trail and the Secret Lake Trail. The two canyons to the north, Big Cottonwood and Mill Creek, are also popular with hikers. City Creek Canyon, on the northeastern edge of downtown Salt Lake City, and the This Is The Place State Park, on the eastern fringe of the city, are favorite spots for shorter strolls, jogging and picnicking.  Robert Redford's Sundance Resort is a year round rustic getaway offering excellent skiing in winter and hiking and mountain biking in summer. The resort is approximately 50 miles (80km) southeast of Salt Lake City, accessible from Salt Lake City and Park City by car or bus. Utah Lake State Park near Provo is the largest body of freshwater in the state. It offers fishing, boating, canoeing and swimming, plus ice-skating, cross-country skiing and ice fishing in winter.  The Great Salt Lake is the place to go bird-watching; try the Utah Lake State Park, Jordanelle State Park or Willard Bay State Park on the northwestern shore. Spring and summer migrants include many shorebirds, waders and waterfowl. Ducks and geese arrive in fall, and bald eagles may be seen in winter. The peak month for migratory shorebirds is September.  
north_america_salt_lake_city_attractions.html:  Attractions  This 10-acre (4-hectare) block surrounded by 15ft (4.5m) high white walls is the geographical and spiritual heart of Salt Lake City. Within it are some of the most important Mormon buildings, including the Temple, the Tabernacle and the Assembly Hall. Even if you're not that interested in the Church of Latter-day Saints, it's worth visiting Temple Square for the architecture alone.  Unless you're a practicing Mormon, you'll have to admire the Temple from outside. Built between 1853 and 1893, this impressive edifice was open to 'Gentiles' (non-Mormons) only for a few days after its completion and then closed to everybody except members of the faith. Take note of the golden statue of the angel Moroni standing atop the 210ft (63m) central spire. According to Church beliefs, in the 1820s the angel appeared to Joseph Smith, a New York farmer, and revealed the word of God. The Big Guy's words were inscribed on golden tablets and written in an ancient but unknown language, which Mr Smith translated using 'stone spectacles' supplied by said angel. After Smith finished the translation, published in 1830 as the Book of Mormon, the golden tablets were whisked away by Moroni and have not been seen since.  Non-Mormons can enter the domed Tabernacle, opposite the Temple, and you'd be a fool not to if your visit coincides with an organ recital or a performance or rehearsal of the famous Mormon Tabernacle Choir. The Tabernacle, built between 1863 and 1867, has stunning acoustic properties, as tour guides love to demonstrate by proving that you can hear a pin drop on the stage even when sitting in the cheap seats at the back. Imagine, then, the effect of a 11,623 pipe organ and a zealous choir giving their vocal chords a workout. Organ recitals generally take place around lunchtime Monday to Saturday, and the choir performs on Sunday morning and rehearses Thursday evening.  South of the Tabernacle is the Assembly Hall, which has a smaller organ and also hosts concerts. Near Temple Square is the Museum of Church History and Art, which has impressive exhibits of pioneer history and a collection of fine art. Next door is the Family History Library, the largest genealogical library and research facility in the world. Non-Mormons can use the facility to search for their roots. Completed in 2000, the church's Conference Center is a daunting granite edifice with walkways and waterfalls cascading down the front; from the four-acre rooftop garden you can take the measure of Temple Square and the entire valley.  Temple Square has two visitors centers containing religious paintings and murals, exhibits about the Book of Mormon and photographs of the interior of the Temple. Free guided tours of the square are conducted by Mormon missionaries.  
north_america_salt_lake_city_facts.html:  When to Go  The best time to visit is either spring (March to May) or fall (September to November), even though Salt Lake City does not experience the extreme summer and winter temperature found in many parts of the Southwestern USA. The relatively mild climate is largely a result of the city's altitude of 4330ft (1320m), which keeps summer highs below 90 F (32 C) and winter temperatures usually above freezing.  The ski season in the nearby Wasatch Range stretches from mid-November to early May, and in February 2002 incorporated the Winter Olympics. Most of the city's major festivals take place in June and July.     Events  The Utah Arts Festival is held in the Triad Center during the last week of June. It is a juried event with hundreds of entries, and features an artists' marketplace, the culinary arts and the performing arts. The Highlands Festival, with Scottish dancing, bagpipes, crafts, food booths and highland games, is held at Fort Douglas on the second Saturday of June. Pioneer Day, on 24 July, commemorates the arrival of the Mormon pioneers in 1847 and includes an arts festival, rodeos and a huge parade; festivities begin about a week before. The Utah State Fair, which is held in early to mid-September is a one week bash of rodeos, carnival rides, agricultural and livestock shows and other entertainment.  Events in the surrounding area include the Sundance Film Festival, which celebrates independent film during the last two weeks of January. Most films are screened in Park City, rather than at the nearby Sundance Resort. A re-enactment of the Golden Spike Ceremony, which celebrated the linking of the Atlantic and Pacific coasts by rail takes place every 10 May at the Golden Spike National Historic Site. It's on the northern shore of the Great Salt Lake, to the west of Brigham City, where the railroads converged. The annual Railroader's Festival is held in the same place on the second Saturday of August and includes spike driving and (get this) buffalo-turd-throwing contests. Oktoberfest brings beer, live music and dancing to the Snowbird ski resort on September weekends and the first weekend in October.    
north_america_salt_lake_city_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This huge, shallow lake about 10 miles (16km) northwest of downtown covers an area of between 900-2500 sq miles (2300-6500 sq km), depending on spring runoff and summer heat evaporation. It's the largest lake in the USA west of the Great Lakes. High rates of evaporation mean the lake generally experiences salinity levels around 20% (compared to 3.5% in seawater). The lake is still recovering from record-breaking snowfalls in the early 1980s, which caused salinity to drop to 6%. So don't get too concerned about your dietary habits if unsinkably salty buoyancy isn't all it's cracked up to be. The decrease in salinity has also reduced the number of brine flies and brine shrimp that attract migrating birds. The Great Salt Lake has been declared a World Heritage bird sanctuary, so it's not surprising that the main attraction here is bird-watching (there are no fish in the lake) and enjoying the unique environment.  
north_america_santa_barbara_activities.html:  Activities  Like any self-respecting Californian beach city, Santa Barbara offers 'awesome' swimming, surfing, kayaking, sailing, jet skiing and jet boating, and if that isn't enough, you can go whale-watching on a state-of-the-art high-speed catamaran operating from Santa Barbara Harbor and the Channel Islands.  Of Santa Barbara's several beaches, the biggest and most popular is East Beach, the long sandy stretch between Stearns Wharf and Montecito. But there's also Butterfly Beach, at the east end of East Beach, where Armani swimsuits and Gucci sunglasses abound; and West Beach, between Stearns Wharf and the harbor, which has calm water and is popular with families and tourists staying in nearby motels. On the other side of the harbor, Leadbetter Beach is a good spot for surfing and windsurfing.  There are some excellent hiking trails around the Santa Ynez foothills, most of which cut through rugged chaparral and steep canyons and offer spectacular coastal views. There are also hiking trails all over the Los Padres National Forest, as well as camping, horseback riding and mountain biking. You can hire bikes in Santa Barbara for cycling along the Cabrillo Bikeway on the beachfront between the Andree Clark Bird Refuge and Leadbetter Beach, and along the Goleta Bikeway, which continues west to UCSB.  
north_america_santa_barbara_attractions.html:  Attractions  Called the 'Queen of the Missions', Mission Santa Barbara sits high on a perch overlooking the downtown area. Established on 4 December, 1786 (the Feast Day of St Barbara), the mission still functions today as a Franciscan friary as well as a parish church and museum. Three adobe structures preceded the existing stone version, which dates from 1820; its main facade has elegant neoclassical-style columns. Inside you'll see Chumash Native American Indian wall decorations and beyond, peaceful courtyard gardens. Behind the church is an extensive cemetery, with over 4000 Chumash graves and elaborate mausoleums of early California settlers.  
north_america_santa_barbara_facts.html:  When to Go  Weather-wise, any time is a good time to visit Santa Barbara depending on what you want to do. Swimming and surfing are more popular in the summer, spring and fall. Winter still holds out the prospect of hiking, although some mountain areas, national forests and parks will be inaccessible from time to time due to heavy snow. The city's many urban attractions - bars and clubs, cafes and restaurants, museums and galleries, and music and theater - are, of course, enjoyable all year round.  Most people visit Santa Barbara in summer (from about mid-May to mid-September) for the beaches and the pleasures of the sea, but be warned: budget accommodations become practically nonexistent in summer and even cheap motel room prices can double or triple. Some places impose a two-night minimum stay during peak season. In general, midweek rates are lower than Friday and Saturday nights.     Events  Aside from participating in America-wide favorites such as Independence Day (4 July), and Thanksgiving (last Thursday in November) Santa Barbara holds many special events of its own. Favorites include the Paragliding and Hang-Gliding Festival in January; the Santa Barbara International Film Festival in March; the  I Madonnari Street Painting Festival in May, where artists create chalk masterpieces in front of the Mission Santa Barbara, with accompanying Italian food and music; and the Lomboc Flower Festival in June. The Pacific Conservatory of the Performing Arts (PCPA) Theaterfest runs all through June to October, with classical and contemporary theater performances in Santa Barbara and Solvang.  In August the Old Spanish Days Fiesta is held for five days all around Santa Barbara, with mariachi music, two parades, a carnival, Spanish dancing and many, many margaritas. September sees the Danish Days celebration in Solvang, with Danish folk dancing, singing and many, many clogs. The Santa Barbara International Jazz Festival, also held in September, attracts jazz, Latin and world music artists to a three-day party on Leadbetter Beach.    
north_america_santa_barbara_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  For a pleasant day of sightseeing and drinking, take Hwy 154 out of town and head into the Santa Ynez Valley: the heart of Santa Barbara's wine country. Fortuitous fog and ocean breezes waft into the valley creating little pockets of weather well suited for growing grapes. About three dozen wineries, mostly family-run, produce Chardonnays as well as Pinot Noir, Merlot, and Cabernet Sauvignon varieties. Most are open for touring and tasting, and some have lovely picnic grounds. The visitor centers in Santa Barbara distribute free maps with brief descriptions of each winery, including tasting room hours. Worthwhile stops include Sunstone, just off Hwy 246, and Foley, south of Hwy 154.  
north_america_santa_fe_activities.html:  Activities  Just walking around Santa Fe can be quite strenuous because of the 7000ft (2134m) elevation. Spend a day or two here to acclimatize before rushing off into the mountains of the Santa Fe National Forest, immediately to the east of town. The heart of the national forest is the undeveloped Peco Wilderness, with trails leading to several peaks over 12,000 feet (3658m). The trails are usually closed in winter.  In winter you can ski at the world-renowned Taos Ski Valley or cross-country ski in the Jemez Mountains and Santa Fe National Forest. Other blood-pumping activities include white-water rafting,fly fishing, rock climbing, mountain biking and swimming, all within minutes of the city. Numerous companies are eager to offer guided tours and rent equipment.  In Santa Fe itself, the main activity is shopping. Native American jewelry (predominantly of silver and turquoise), basket work, pottery and textiles are for sale at about every other store, as well as along the Palace of the Governors and in the plaza.  
north_america_santa_fe_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Museum of New Mexico runs four museums in Santa Fe. The Palace of the Governors displays historical objects reflecting Santa Fe's Indian, Spanish, Mexican and American heritage. The 'palace' is one of the oldest public buildings in the country. Built in 1610 by Spanish officials, it housed thousands of villages when the Indians revolted in 1680 and was home to the territorial governors after 1846. Since 1909 the building has been a museum.  The Museum of International Folk Art is arguably the best museum in town. It houses more than 100,000 objects from more than 100 countries and the exhibits are so lively and evocative that a festive feel permeates the rooms. The Hispanic Wing displays religious art, tin work, jewelry and textiles from northern New Mexico and throughout the Spanish Colonial Empire, dating from the 17th century.   The Museum of Fine Arts is New Mexico's oldest art museum. The permanent collection is dominated by regional artists, while touring exhibitions have wider scope. The 1918 building is an excellent example of the original Santa Fe-style adobe.  The Museum of Indian Arts and Culture was opened in 1987 to display artifacts that have been unearthed by the Laboratory of Anthropology, which must confirm that any proposed building site in New Mexico is not historically significant. Since 1931 it has collected over 50,000 artifacts. Rotating exhibits explore the historical and contemporary lives of the Pueblo, Navajo and Apache cultures.  
north_america_santa_fe_facts.html:  When to Go   Summer is the high season, coinciding with school vacations in both North America and Europe. Memorial Day weekend (end of May) to Labor Day weekend (beginning of September) is the vacation season; expect higher prices and more crowds. Plan well ahead if you're coming for the third weekend in August (Indian Market) - most hotel rooms are booked months in advance.   Santa Fe's ski season usually runs from Thanksgiving to Easter.     Events  The Indian Market, on the third weekend in August, is Santa Fe's biggest event. More than a thousand Indian artists from around the country show their works in booths on and around the plaza. This is a judged show and the quality of the work presented is phenomenal.  On the first weekend after Labor Day, the drunken, revelrous Santa Fe Fiesta commemorates Don Diego de Vargas' reconquering of the city in 1692. The highlight of the weekend is the burning of Zozobra (Old Man Gloom), a 40ft(12m)-high papier-m che doll. The destruction of Zozobra symbolizes the end of last year's problems. Food booths are set up on the plaza and music continues well into the night.  The Artist and Craftsman Show is held at one of eight different pueblos each summer and includes all kinds of food, dances and music as well as craft. The Rodeo of Santa Fe is a four-day regional rodeo held over the second weekend of July.    
north_america_santa_fe_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track   This 8-acre (3.2-hectare) apple orchard has evolved into a world-renowned bronze casting facility and sculpture showplace. Every Saturday, you can watch 2000 F (1093 C) molten bronze being poured into ceramic shell molds, one of several steps in the complex lost-wax casting technique. The artists practice mold-making and sand-casting on the premises as well, and are happy to explain the processes and answer questions. A gallery hosts changing exhibits and there is a year-round sculpture garden on the lawn.  The foundry is 5mi(8km) north of Santa Fe on Bishop's Lodge Road in Tesuque.  
north_america_san_antonio_activities.html:  Activities  A few miles north of downtown, Brackenridge Park is a favorite San Antonian getaway spot, with serene offerings including boat rentals, hiking trails, a little putt-putt railroad and an old fashioned carousel. Its main attraction - other than its sylvan setting - is that it's the headspring for the San Antonio River. There are bridle paths here as well, and you can rent horses from nearby stables. A few miles farther northwest, Friedrich Park comprises over 200 acres (80 hectares) of trails and rewarding vistas.  Closer to downtown, try San Pedro Park for its tennis courts, swimming pool and wide stretches of green. It's three blocks north of downtown, next to San Antonio College on San Pedro St.  San Antonio is just south of a number of the Hill Country's spectacular limestone caves, and spelunking has become a popular pastime. Bicycling trips, whether wheeling around the city or eating up the local hills and plains, is also gaining favor. Ask in any of the city's bike shops about cycling trails and the self-guided tour information for Mission Trail rides.  
north_america_san_antonio_attractions.html:  Attractions  The story of the Battle of the Alamo is one of America's most enduring legends. It was in here on 23 February, 1836, that John Wayne... sorry, Davy Crockett, Jim Bowie and nearly 200 courageous Texan revolutionaries held out against an army of thousands of Mexican troops, defending the fort in a pivotal battle of the Texas War for Independence. A onetime Spanish presidio (fort), the Alamo is currently a shrine to those who died protecting it, run by the rather persnickety Daughters of the Republic of Texas (DRT), a group of women who trace their lineage directly to the period of the Texas Republic.  The surprising things about the Alamo today are its size - it's much smaller than you'd think - and its beauty. An ornately decorated portal leads to a typical Spanish Colonial church, constructed while the influence of the Muslims was still dominating much of Spanish church architecture. In the main chapel building is the Shrine, with an exhibit of the battle. Frequent free talks given by docents provide a history of the battle and of prerevolutionary life in San Antonio.  The Alamo occupies the entire area between Houston, Bonham and Crockett Sts and Alamo Plaza, a few minutes' walk northeast of downtown.  
north_america_san_antonio_facts.html:  When to Go  San Antonio has a semitropical climate that's rarely far from agreeable. Mid-summer through September is the rainiest, most humid period, but even the August heat spells aren't half as bad as you might think. As far as weather's concerned, fall and spring are the optimum times to visit. Winter temperatures usually drop no lower than 40 F (5 C), and the hottest summer's day seldom tops 95 F (35 C), a lot cooler than the deserts of nearby New Mexico.     Events  San Antonio is a city with a full calendar of festivals and events, and visitors arriving anytime of year are bound to run into at least one of them. The San Antonio Mud Festival is held the first Saturday of January, when workers drain the Riverwalk canal, lug out all the garbage, fix the pumps and refill it with water that stays clean and sparkling fresh - until February, anyway. The event is celebrated with live music, general mayhem and the annual crowning of the Mud King and Queen. Mid-February brings the San Antonio Livestock Show & Rodeo to the Freeman Coliseum, with two weeks' worth of buckin' broncos and other Western whoop-ass. Beginning five days before Ash Wednesday, Carnaval del Rio fills the riverfront with all manner of local musicians: from adagio to zydeco, and all the Texan twang most folks can take.  On the weekend closest to St Patrick's Day (17 March), the city dyes the river green and celebrates their feat by tossing back downright Irish quantities of beer. Fiesta San Antonio, a 10-day series of events in late April, is the city's biggest celebration, with fairs, feeds, rodeos, races and a whole lot of music and dancing. A few weeks later on Cinco de Mayo (5 May), similar activities celebrate Mexico's defeat of French troops at the 1862 Battle of Puebla. Also in May, don't miss the Tejano Conjunto Festival, five days of the world's best conjunto musicianship and Tex-Mex cooking.  Every Thursday, Friday and Saturday night from Memorial Day (30 May) through Labor Day (first Monday in September), the Fiesta Noche del Rio brings Latino music to the Ameson River Theater in a series of concerts and dance performances. From June through August, the same venue hosts the Ballet Folkl rico de San Antonio on Sundays.  The Texas Folklife Festival in early August is the main arts and crafts fair, held at the Institute of Texan Cultures. On the weekend closest to 16 September, Mexican Independence Day is celebrated all across the city with food, music and theater. December, of course, is full of festive gatherings. The most colorful are the traditional Mexican festivals: the 12 December feast of the Virgin de Guadalupe and the celebrations of Las Luminarias and Las Posadas on the two weekends preceding Christmas.    
north_america_san_antonio_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  A trip to Laredo is the closest thing to a Mexican vacation a San Antonian can take without actually leaving Texas. Bisected neatly by the mighty Rio Grande - the dividing line between Texas and Mexico - Laredo and its south of the border hermanita, Nuevo Laredo, are together known as Los Dos Laredos (the Two Laredos), and the two cities make up the most lively fiesta zone the hinterlands have to offer. And whether it's the anniversary of the Mexican Revolution or George Washington's birthday, the fun is shared by all.  Laredo holds the distinction of being the only Spanish settlement in the Lone Star State with its earliest roots neither in guns nor crosses. Of course, rural hamletdom didn't last long, and today it has a bevy of antique churches, forts and museum pieces to show us why. Still, the town's main attractions are its Texican traditions and its (literal) bridging of US/Mexican cultures. The border-spanning International Bridge No 1 across the Rio Grande (known to Mexicans as the Rio Bravo) is walkable in five minutes with minimal formalities, and there's a great market just four blocks beyond. And monolingual gringos can relax as both languages are spoken by just about everyone on both sides of the border.  Laredo is 152mi (245km) and a bit over two hours drive southwest of San Antonio along I-35. Greyhound buses make the trip daily, as do flights from SAT into Laredo International Airport.  
north_america_san_diego_activities.html:  Activities   Surfing is theSan Diego sport, and it occasionally seems that every Tom, Dick and Moondoggie is queuing up behind you to pick up the next wave. The best breaks, going from south to north, are at Imperial Beach, Coronado, Point Loma, Ocean Beach, Pacific Beach, Bird Rock, Windansea, La Jolla Cove and La Jolla Shores. Point Loma's reef breaks are the least accessible and therefore the least crowded. Autumn generally offers the best opportunity to find strong swells and offshore Santa Ana winds.  The best spots to pick up on the So-Cal beach scene are the 3-mile (5km) stretch from the southern tip of Mission Beach to the northern end of Pacific Beach. Ocean Beach is also a convivial spot, while La Jolla Cove is a lovely sheltered beach with excellent snorkeling offshore.  Some of the city's best diving can be found in the environmentally protected San Diego-La Jolla Underwater Park, in La Jolla Bay. There's rich marine life, kelp forests and a 100ft (30m) deep underwater canyon. Local dive operators can also arrange trips to the islands off the coast of Baja California. Keen-eyed whale watchers might be lucky enough to spot gray whales off Point Loma between mid-December and March. Whale watching cruises operate during the migration season; some will 'guarantee' a sighting.   Boating and canoeing are popular on Mission Bay. Experienced sailors can charter yachts to sail in the harbor and the open sea. Charter operators are concentrated at Shelter Island, a few miles southwest of the airport. The most popular public fishing piers are Imperial Beach Municipal Pier, Embarcadero Fishing Pier, Shelter Island Fishing Pier, Ocean Beach Pier and Crystal Pier. The best time of year to toss in a line is between April and October. Fishing charters are available from Shelter Island Marina. Offshore catches include barracuda, bass, yellowtail and, in summer, albacore.  Glider riders hang at Torrey Pines Glider Port in La Jolla. Even if you're not into defying gravity, this is a great place to watch hang gliders and paragliders launch themselves into the sea breezes that rise over the cliffs. Expensive tandem flights are available if you can't resist joining in.  
north_america_san_diego_attractions.html:  Attractions  In the city's early days, this colorful downtown neighborhood was home to San Diego's most profitable businesses - saloons, gambling joints, bordellos and opium dens. By the 1960s, it had declined to a skid row of flophouses and bars, whose seedy ambiance made it so unattractive to investors that many of its old buildings survived by default. When developers finally moved in, locals and the Gaslamp Quarter Council saved the area from demolition, and a 16 block area was designated a National Historic District.  Now, restaurants, bars and galleries occupy restored buildings dating back to the 1870s, and wrought iron street lamps in the style of 19th century gas lamps give the area its historic flavor. The most enjoyable time to visit is on a warm evening, when people throng the streets and crowd the sidewalk tables. Guided walking tours are offered by the local council.  
north_america_san_diego_facts.html:  When to Go  San Diego has an all-but-perfect climate, so weather-wise any time is a good time to visit. If you want to indulge in watersports and bake yourself on the beach, it's best to come between May and October, when average daily highs range from 70 to 85 F (22 to 30 C). Even in the coolest months (December and January), daily high temperatures still hover pleasantly close to 68 F (20 C). Surfing is always good, but the best conditions are from September to November, with strong swells and offshore Santa Ana winds. Gray whales head south past Point Loma from mid-December to late February and return on their way north in March.     Events  It's not all sunshine and surf in San Diego, as the Ocean Beach Kite Festival makes the most of the wind with kite making, decorating and flying competitions in March. American Indian Cultural Days held in Balboa Park in May includes Native American dancing, music and art exhibits. Things get a little more raunchy at the Pacific Beach Block Party held on Garnet Ave the same month.  The Ocean Beach Street Fair and Chili Cook-Off is a popular two-day street bash in June. It's accompanied that month by the three-week Del Mar Fair, a huge county fair held at the Del Mar Fairgrounds with headline musical acts and hundreds of carnival rides.  The Hillcrest City Fest street fair is held in one of San Diego's liveliest innercity areas in August. The Gaslamp Quarter gets in one the neighborhood party scene in September during the San Diego Street Scene festival. The Harbor Parade of Lights in December goes one better than a Christmas tree, with dozens of decorated illuminated boats floating in San Diego's harbor.    
north_america_san_diego_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The gold lotus domes of the Self Realization Fellowship, founded by Yogi Paramahansa Yoganada in 1937, are conspicuous on the coastal bluff at Encinitas. Live-in retreats are available for those in need of spiritual renewal, but if you just need a quick refresher the meditation gardens are open to the public. The beach below the bluff is called Swami's, and it has one of the best big breaks for experienced surfers. Commercial flower farms occupy the range inland, and in spring they coat the hills in spectacular bands of brilliant color. Encinitas' Quail Botanical Gardens have a large collection of California native plants and flora from Central America and Australia.  Encinitas is approximately 22 miles (35km) north of San Diego, just off I-5. It's accessible from San Diego by local bus, Greyhound and commuter train.  
north_america_san_francisco_activities.html:  Activities  San Franciscans are an energetic lot, and there are plenty of opportunities to burn calories even within the city limits. A glance over the sail-dotted bay would suggest this is prime sailing and windsurfing country, but it's not the easiest stretch of water to navigate, and much of the year the wind can be as chilly as going the full dunk. None of the 'California girl' visions apply to San Francisco: ocean swimming is never very pleasant, and the treacherous surf at Ocean Beach is only for the hardy. Walking and sunbathing are the most popular waterside activities. Jogging is also popular beachside and in the city's parks. In-line skating and cycling rule supreme in Golden Gate Park, where you can also play just about any sport you can think of - anyone for petanque?  
north_america_san_francisco_attractions.html:  Attractions  San Francisco's densely populated downtown is squeezed into the hilly northeastern corner of the peninsula. The often dramatic cityscape came about because the streets were laid out as if their planners had never so much as glanced at the city's topography. They simply dropped a grid pattern onto the steeply undulating terrain, and the result is that streets often climb or drop at ridiculously steep gradients. It makes parking hazardous, breeds bicycle messengers of superhuman strength and provides a hairy setting for car chase scenes in movies.   Union Square is San Francisco's downtown tourist center. It's a mishmash of glitzy shops and hotels, flower vendors and homeless people. Cable cars rumble down the west side of the square; try looking down Hyde St towards Aquatic Park, down Washington St to Chinatown and the Financial District, or down California St from Nob Hill. And if you're in Nob Hill, you've just got to ride the elevator to the Top of the Mark, the famous view bar at the top of the Mark Hopkins Hotel. SoMa ('South of Market St') is a combination of lofty office buildings spilling over from the Financial District, fancy condos along the Embarcadero, a touristy gallery and museum precinct around Yerba Buena Gardens and the late night entertainment scene along Folsom and 11th Sts.  
north_america_san_francisco_facts.html:  When to Go  San Francisco is a popular location any time of the year. Summer is the prime tourist season, so prices are higher, lines are longer and finding a parking place is about as easy as working out what to wear to the Folsom Street Fair. San Francisco's summer weather is none too hospitable anyway: the bay is often foggy, while inland or north in the Wine Country it's often too hot and dusty for comfort. Local weather patterns are highly unpredictable, but generally the best months weather-wise are between mid-September and mid-November.     Events  If you like partying and dress-ups, San Francisco could be just the ticket. Chinese New Year (late January/early February) is celebrated in Chinatown with color and verve similar to Chinese centers in Asia. In late April, Cherry Blossom Festival is celebrated in Japantown with martial arts demos, tea ceremonies and other Japanese events. Also in April is San Francisco's International Film Festival, the oldest in the USA. On the third Sunday in May, over 100,000 joggers take part in the Bay to Breakers run, many of them in silly costume (and sometimes in nothing at all).  June is a celebratory month for San Francisco's gay community, with a film festival and Gay Pride Week leading up to the last Sunday in June, when the outrageous Gay Freedom Day Parade is held. The evening before the parade is the Dyke March and the Pink Saturday party on Castro St, attended by up to half a million people. Carnaval is celebrated in the Mission district over Memorial Day weekend in May.  Stern Grove, a woodsy park in the Sunset district, teems with music lovers on weekends during its free June-through-August concert series. Cable car drivers compete to be the loudest or most tuneful in the late June/early July Cable Car Bell-Ringing Championship. September is chock full of festivals: there's free Opera in the Park, free Shakespeare performances, a blues festival and the Folsom St Fair, the sexiest S&M street fair in the city. San Francisco really turns it on for Halloween (31 October): this may be the most crazed night of the year, with hundreds of thousands of costumed revelers taking to the streets, particularly Castro St.   Public holidays January 1 - New Year's Day third Monday in January - Martin Luther King Jr Day third Monday in February - Presidents' Day March/April - Easter last Monday in May - Memorial Day July 4 - Independence Day first Monday in September - Labor Day second Monday in October - Columbus Day November 11 - Veterans Day fourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving December 25 - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to San FranciscoTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_san_francisco_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Across the Golden Gate Bridge from San Francisco, Marin County is wealthy, laid back and right in tune with every trend that comes by. From hot tubs and cocaine to New Age spiritualism, mountain biking and designer pizzas, Marin was there first. It's a wonderfully varied peninsula with fiercely expensive Sausalito on the bay side and the wild Pacific coastline stretching north to popular Stinson Beach, hideaway Bolinas and fog-swept Point Reyes National Seashore, which is the best spot in the Bay Area for whale watching.  Between bay and ocean, the central hills rise to the 2600ft (770m) peak of Mt Tamalpais, overlooking the redwood stand of Muir Woods. The view from Mt Tam is a breathtaking 360 panorama of ocean, bay, cities, bridges and hills. Over 200mi (320km) of hiking and biking trails wind around the mountain, and deer, fox, bobcat and even the occasional mountain lion dwell in the forests and dells.  You're in Marin once you're over the Golden Gate Bridge: Highway 101 cuts directly through the region; Highway 1 branches off at Mill Valley and heads to the coast. Plenty of buses run from San Francisco; there are also ferries from Fisherman's Wharf to Sausalito, Larkspur and Tiburon.  
north_america_san_jose_del_cabo_activities.html:  Activities  You can, if you like, just hang out in the shady Plaza Mijares licking down a helado (ice cream) or knocking back a cold cerveza (beer) - wowsers please substitute a refresco (soft drink) here. But try to ease yourself upright at least a couple of times during your stay to do some more-energetic outdoor activities. Swimming, snorkelling and surfing are popular time-killers along the sandy edge of the bay. Near the beach is a nine-hole golf course (reasonably priced) and a batch of tennis courts (unreasonably priced, particularly for night-time hits), while mountain bikers will find the surrounding hills are alive with fellow enthusiasts. A truly seasonal pursuit, conducted both from the beach and in deeper water, is fishing: dorado, striped marlin and tuna are hooked from January to April; mid-year catches include roosterfish and wahoo; and end-of-year rods are bent by blue marlin and sailfish.  
north_america_san_jose_del_cabo_attractions.html:  Attractions  The rest of Los Cabos may be dominated by modern, all-credit-cards-accepted resorts and the mock-formality of golf course clubhouses, but the county's capital has chosen to keep its historic Spanish-colonial atmosphere, laidback friendliness and natural tranquillity. These relaxing characteristics are all on show in and around the distinctly uncluttered Plaza Mijares, a breezy square where inactivity rules supreme. Looming prominently on the western side of the plaza is the mosaic-decorated Iglesia San Jose, a replica of the cornerstone Jesuit misi n built here in 1730.  The plaza's perimeter is home to some fine restaurants where mooching pedestrians can get their fill of Mexican cuisine, from mariscos (seafood) to antojitos (traditional snacks). Also scattered around the square are numerous souvenir shops that sell all the usual Baja trinkets, like black velvet paintings, gaudily stitched super-size sombreros and wrought-iron cages containing domesticated wildlife (OK, stuffed birds). But among these are several shops selling the genuine craft and interior-design articles, such as artful ceramics, glassware, woven rugs, silver jewellery and sculptures from the mainland Mexican Huichol tribe. Running from the southeast corner of Plaza Mijares all the way to the main beach is Boulevard Mijares, where you'll find more emporiums and this low-key town's handful of gringo-frequented boozers.  
north_america_san_jose_del_cabo_facts.html:  When to Go  While Baja California's Pacific coastline is blessed with relatively mild temperatures year-round thanks to the cooling effect of a strong current originating in the Subarctic, the Gulf coast - including the cape on which San Jose del Cabo is located - can heat up dramatically in summer, with temperatures in excess of 40 C (104 F). The cape region is also prone to summertime storms and the occasional chubasco (hurricane) due to tropical lows in the Pacific. During winter, on the other hand, temperatures in the area stay pretty warm and the sun just keeps on shining, making this an excellent climate in which to visit. Of course, the average daily winter high of 23 C (73 F) means this is also the time when most northern hemisphere visitors arrive, greedily seeking a second summer.  If more hours of daylight is a higher priority than physical comfort, travel to the area during horario de verano (daylight saving time), which lasts from the first Sunday in April until the last Sunday in October. Prices throughout Baja California are almost double the charges levied in most other parts of Mexico, so you'll be faced with a costly excursion no matter which time of year you visit.     Events  To see some of the best pre-Lent festivities in the country, head over to La Paz (capital of Baja California Sur) in late February for the local Carnaval, which overflows with parades, fireworks and frenetic partying. San Jose del Cabo's patron saint, St Joseph, gets his celebratory comeuppance on 19 March during the Fiesta de San Jose, when the town hosts everything from street dances to horse races and food fairs. The local church, Iglesia San Jose, becomes the centre of devoted attention when Holy Week begins the countdown to Easter in March or April. La Paz is again in high spirits from 15 to 16 September when mariachi bands salute the anniversary of the D a de la Independencia, marking the start of Mexican independence from Spain in 1821.    
north_america_san_jose_del_cabo_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  In the cape region's mountainous interior, 15km (9mi) northwest of San Jose del Cabo as the buzzard flies, are the lush, diverse forests of the 1128-sq-km (434-sq-mi) Sierra de la Laguna. It's one of Baja California's four biosphere reserves, a concept initiated in the 1970s by the United Nations Educational, Scientific & Cultural Organization (UNESCO) whereby swathes of naturally significant land in developing countries are fully protected within zonas n cleo (core areas) but locals are allowed to work certain surrounding areas using sustainable methods, hence balancing environmental and economic needs.  Sierra de la Laguna is a rugged, high-altitude wilderness of deciduous, coniferous and palm forests, the hills of which are alive with the sounds of experienced hikers and inexperienced foot-sloggers who have wisely signed up with local guides or organised excursions. There are four main (and unmarked) east-west crossings of the biosphere reserve to choose from: the central Ca n San Bernardo, a five-day haul considered the easiest route for walkers; the northern five to six-day Ca n San Dionisio, which guides you through an ecological wonderland of aspens, pines, palms and cacti; the southern Ca n San Pablo, also a five-day trudge; and the Naranjas Road in Sierra de la Laguna's far south, a treacherously narrow, potholed and arabesque dirt cutting that's frequently targeted by sturdy cars (usually 4WDs) and day-tripping mountain bikers. On-foot crossings of the Reserva de La Bi sfera Sierra de la Laguna are begun from one of a number of foothill villages, all of which you'll need a car to get to unless you're on a tour.  
north_america_scottsdale_activities.html:  Activities  Scottsdale's sunny disposition makes it a perfect locale for those who like to break golf clubs over their knees while taking a walk in the park. There are about 125 golf courses in a city of about 200,000. This means there are more golf courses per capita in Scottsdale than just about anywhere else in the world. Some of these courses are best left to those skilled enough to make a living playing golf, but most of them are of a high enough standard to challenge the rest of us, who make a living so that we can play golf.  Scottsdale is surrounded by the beauties of the rugged Sonoran Desert, including the Tonto National Forest Four Peaks area and the Superstition Mountains, perfect playgrounds for outdoor lovers and trekkers. There are many tour companies offering anything from ecotours to drives in a high-performance Hummer, but a visit to the local visitor information center, a good pair of hiking boots and lots of fresh water is all one needs to make like Lawrence of Arabia and head off on your very own desert expedition.  Scottsdale's art galleries are not just a great way of seeing great contemporary art - they're a perfect opportunity to see and be seen by some of the country's most fashion-conscious art afficionados. Art lovers will be beguiled by the abundance of art, including Native American art galleries.  
north_america_scottsdale_attractions.html:  Attractions  Scottsdale historic district was built around the time of the town's inauguration at the end of the 19th century, and thankfully much of it has been preserved. It adds credibility to Scottsdale's 'Westernest in the West' claims, and moreover it makes a darn good point of departure for visitors to the city - and the best way to discover it is on foot. Shopaholics are well-catered for - Scottsdale's affluence attracts some pretty high-falutin' boutiques for a town so proud of its rough 'n' ready origins. Artists were coming to Scottsdale long before Arizona became a real estate developer's utopia, and Old Town Scottsdale is replete with dozens of art galleries catering to every taste and budget. If avant-garde or Native American art take your fancy, pull out the platinum card and pray those stock options pull through, otherwise some Western-themed kitsch art might be taking pride of place on your mantelpiece this Christmas. Architecture buffs who've come to Scottsdale as part of a Frank Lloyd Wright pilgrimage should keep an eye out for the school (dating back to 1909), now also the site of the Scottsdale Historical Museum.  
north_america_scottsdale_facts.html:  When to Go  The sun shines on Scottsdale a whopping 85% of daylight hours. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure out this may have something to do with its prime location, in the heart of Arizona's 'Valley of the Sun'. This makes Scottsdale a safe bet if you want to catch some rays. The climate is wonderfully toasty in the winter, although in the summer months the temperature can call forth such epithets as 'scorching' and 'sizzling'. Those with a low heat tolerance threshold should give Scottsdale a wide berth in July and August, but otherwise anytime is the best time to go west.     Events  Scottsdale likes to show off its Western affinities at the annual Parada del Sol, which features livestock reputed to be some of the most beautiful in the West. This is not a double entendre of dubious taste: we're talking cattle and horses, here, folks. Proximity to Hollywood and an embarassment of golf course riches combine in the annual MTX/Alice Cooper Celebrity Am, which raises money for underprivileged kids. Scottsdale is not short of music festivals. In January, the Bird's Nest Music Fest, coinciding with the Phoenix Open Gold Tournament, takes place in a gigantic tent that can accommodate an audience of up to 8,000.  For 25 years, the Paradise Valley Jazz Festival has attracted swingers to Scottsdale every April. The event is famous for its laid-back atmosphere, where musicians mingle with the audiences. In February, the Scottsdale Arabian Horse Show has more than 1700 Arabian and half-Arabian horses competing for glory. Also held in February is the Scottsdale Fine Arts and Chocolate Festival, where over 150 artists gather in the pavilions, and visitors stuff their faces with chocolate and feast the eyes on contemporary art. In March, the US West National Festival of the West is a wannabe cowboy's four-day dream come true. It's been rated as one of the calendar's best Western events. Finally, in November, the Thunderbird Balloon Classic is a spectacular sightfor those avid enough to face the bracing dawn chill, or else wait until dusk, when the balloons float over the sky while onlookers marvel below with musical accompaniment.    
north_america_scottsdale_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  It's billed as the only authentic ghost town in the valley, suggesting there are some inauthentic ones waiting to be discovered. Goldfield Ghost Town dates back to a brief 1890s gold boom, when in typical style its construction was almost as rapid as its abandonment. Situated at the foothills of the Superstition Mountains, it's now become another of Scottsdale's family-oriented attractions, replete with tall tales and mysteries, including the mystery of the Lost Dutchman Mine. Cowboy wannabes will look forward to the gunfights, there's a narrow-gauge railroad for the trainspotters, and engineers will make a beeline for the museum collections of mining equipment. Everyone else will have to content themselves with soaking in the dusty atmosphere, marvelling at the mountain views and splurging in the shops and concessions.  
north_america_seattle_activities.html:  Activities  As hometown to the giant outfitting companies Eddie Bauer and REI, it should come as no surprise that Seattle folk love their great outdoors. It's even possible to hike wilderness trails without ever leaving the city. Seward Park, which juts into Lake Washington 6 miles (10km) southeast of downtown, offers several miles of trails in a remnant of the area's old growth forest. Even longer trails are available in the 543 acre (220 hectare) Discovery Park, 5 miles (8km) northwest of downtown.  Another long-distance path that is welcoming to both hikers and bikers is the Burke-Gilman Trail, a 16.5-mile (26.5km) paved path that winds from Ballard to Log Boom Park on Seattle's Eastside. The trail follows an old rail line along the shores of Lake Union and Lake Washington, and the views are great. Nearby Green Lake Park is a favorite with swimmers and windsurfers in summer, and the paths that line Green Lake are often alive with joggers.  In good weather, the surface of Lake Union offers fine sailing, as well as sea and white-water kayaking. The Waterfront Activities Center on the University of Washington campus rents canoes and rowboats.  Seattle is fortunate to have several ski areas within easy drive of the city. Closest are the ski slopes at Snoqualmie Pass and Stevens Pass, 80 miles (125km) east of Seattle, and Crystal Mountain, 75 miles (121km) southeast of town near Mt Rainier. If you don't have a vehicle or don't want to face the drive, ski buses leave from several locations in the Seattle area.  
north_america_seattle_attractions.html:  Attractions  For a hungry traveler on a budget, Seattle has no greater attraction than the Pike Place Market. Nearly a century old, Pike Place is one of Seattle's most popular landmarks, as famous for the theatrics of its boisterous vendors as it is for its vastly appealing edibles. Its most popular buildings are the Main and North arcades, with their artfully arranged banks of produce, and fresh fish, crabs and mollusks piled high on ice. The best bet for enjoying the market is to go on an uncrowded weekday morning. Wander slowly, sample frequently and remember to keep your eyes peeled for flying fish: the fishmongers hurtle huge salmon between their stalls at breakneck speeds!  Over half of the market's open-air stalls are now devoted to locally made arts & crafts, and its labyrinthine lower levels are filled with pocket-sized shops of all descriptions, from Indian spice stalls to magicians' supply shops. The streets surrounding Pike Place Market continue the maze of shops, with ethnic food stalls, plant shops, galleries and gift boutiques. Pike Place Market is in the northwest corner of downtown, near the waterfront.  
north_america_seattle_facts.html:  When to Go  Seattle's reputation for rain is somewhat undeserved - catching just 38in (97cm) per year, Seattle's rainfall ranks well behind many Midwestern and Eastern cities' totals. When it comes to damp and chilly, though, not many places in the US can touch Seattle.  Averaging only 55 days of sunshine a year, you can pretty well expect to see some form of fog, mist or cloud while you're there. This pervasive grayness tends to make the city's otherwise moderate temperatures - winter highs top out around 50 F (10 C), summer highs float between 75 and 85 F (25 to 30 C) - seem downright frosty. The majority of rain falls between November and April. Snow is unusual, though when it comes, it comes down heavy. Summer is the choicest time for a visit, when marine clouds in the morning tend to burn off completely by afternoon. Spring and fall attempt to confuse residents with alternating rain and sun throughout the day.     Events  Seattle's first big ethnic festival is Chinese New Year, held in the International District, usually in January. Pioneer Square embraces its somewhat rowdy reputation on Mardi Gras (usually in late February), adding in that special Seattle touch via the annual competitive Spam-Carving Contest. Seattle's main lesbian and gay pride event is the Freedom Day Celebration, which is usually held the last Sunday in June. The Northwest Folklife Festival takes over Seattle Center during Memorial Day weekend, the last weekend in May, when 5000 performers and artists present the music, dance, craft and food of over 100 countries.  Seattle has two spectacular summer festivals that more than any other events bring the city to life. The first, Seafair, is an extravagant three-week celebration in July and early August featuring hydroplane races on Lake Washington, a torchlight parade downtown, an airshow, lots of music, a carnival and the arrival of the naval fleet. Bumbershoot, held at Seattle Center over Labor Day weekend (in early September), features an arts & crafts street fair, fine arts exhibitions and an amazing assortment of theatrical and musical events. As autumn rolls around and thoughts turn to earthier matters, the Western Washington Fair presents a bewildering array of livestock and agricultural displays, another carnival and live entertainment. It's held in Puyallup, south of Seattle, in mid-September.    
north_america_seattle_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  An hour's drive into the mountains east of Seattle is the Salish Lodge and Spa at Snoqualmie Falls. This beautiful resort lodge, perched atop 268ft (82m) Snoqualmie Falls, was the locale for many of the scenes from the TV series Twin Peaks. The drive into the Cascades, views of the waterfall and short hikes in the area, followed by lunch at the lodge (jokes about cherry pie and a cup of joe are mandatory) make for a nice day away.  Four ski areas - Alpental, Snoqualmie Summit, Ski Acres and Hyak - are another prime draw. The falls and resort are 4 miles (6km) northwest of the town of Snoqualmie on Hwy 202.  
north_america_sedona_activities.html:  Activities   Hiking and mountain biking are popular activities around Sedona. There are easy scenic trails in Red Rock State Park and more difficult ones in the National Forest. Hiking is possible year-round, though some higher trails may be closed in winter. The ranger station sells hiking maps.  4WD 'Jeep Tours' of Sedona's backcountry and surrounding areas are also popular. They can run from two hours to all day. Choose tours to see or photograph scenery, experience energy vortexes, look at archaeological sites or visit the Grand Canyon or Hopi Indian Reservation.  
north_america_sedona_attractions.html:  Attractions  Arizona's second most popular attraction, Oak Creek Canyon is located northeast of Sedona along Hwy 89A. This is where the canyon is at its narrowest, and the red, orange and white cliffs are the most dramatic. Forests of pine and juniper clothe the canyon, providing a scenic backdrop for trout fishing in the creek. Hikers are also attracted to the stunning West Fork, located in the Secret Mountain area.  The USDA Forest Service maintains six campgrounds in the canyon as well as picnic areas. It also maintains the Oak Creek Scenic Viewpoint, 16 miles (26km) north of Sedona at the top of a particularly steep and winding section of N Hwy 89A.  
north_america_sedona_facts.html:  When to Go  While things start hotting up between March and May, averages are still well below the 95 F-plus (around 35 C) range of July and August, and always cooler than Phoenix. Rainfall is moderate at this time. September to December are the peak times for local festivals and events. Having said that, unless the heat really bothers you, there isn't a bad time to be in this area.     Events  There's more to Sedona than vortex-viewing. More than 7000 people regularly scat along to the annual Sedona Jazz on the Rocks festival, held just outside town every September. September also sees the recently-inaugurated Sedona Eco-Fest. Part carnival, part education and mostly music, this ecology-friendly event is a great one for the kids. Early March is the usual time for the Sedona Film Festival, a three-day event that brings independent film to the town.    
north_america_sedona_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Montezuma Castle is an Ancestral Puebloan site built and occupied between the 12th and 14th centuries. The name refers to the splendid castle-like location high on a cliff; early explorers thought the five-story-high pueblo was Aztec and hence dubbed it Montezuma. A museum interprets the archaeology of this well-preserved site, visible from a self-guiding, wheelchair-accessible trail. Entrance into the 'castle' itself is prohibited. Access the monument from I-17 exit 289, then follow signs for 2mi(3km).  Montezuma Well, 10mi (16km) northeast of the castle, is also part of the monument. It's a natural limestone sinkhole, 470ft (140m) across and surrounded by remnants of Sinaguan and Hohokam dwellings. Water from the sinkhole is still used for irrigation by Native Americans. Both areas have picnic sites.  
north_america_tampa_activities.html:  Activities   Canoeing is a mightily popular local activity, be it on the Hillsborough River or in the warm Gulf waters at nearby Clearwater Beach. Cyclists are a common sight around town, with various events and riding groups regularly organized: many public buses are equipped with bicycle racks. Ice skating is possible year-round at Town & Country Skateworld with the admission price including skate-hire, while anyone into friendly fire can try paintball at the Thunderbay Paintball complex. Meanwhile, one-hour hot air ballooning tours are conducted over the city at dawn each day (depending on the weather) and period-garbed actors lead ghost tours on foot through Ybor City.  
north_america_tampa_attractions.html:  Attractions  Mosey along to MOSI to see one of the most educational, absorbing and child-friendly science fairs in Florida. Set up in an impressively overfed building on Fowler Ave, to the north of Tampa's downtown, the museum is wedged between the academic campus of the University of South Florida and the no-brainer rides of Busch Gardens, and contains a terrific array of hands-on exhibits. You can play an oversized game of pinball to see how energy is produced, take out the average American's distinctly greater-than-average amount of domestic trash, and pilot a small hot air balloon (though unlike other ballooning trips, this one comes without a sunrise or a glass of champagne). The museum also has various changing exhibits and an IMAX cinema where you can get up close and personal with the images on the screen.  Museum fanciers should also make the short trip west from downtown across the Hillsborough River to the University of Tampa campus. At the southern end is the whimsical Henry B Plant Museum. It may sound like a botanical garden but it's actually a restored welcome-if-you're-filthy-rich hotel that was built in 1891 by Florida railroad magnate Henry B Plant. In its day it was about as luxurious an accommodation option as you could get, with extravagantly outfitted en-suite rooms, a solarium, a grand salon, and an expensively eclectic collection of furniture garnered during Plant's world travels. The hotel overestimated the extent of its Tampa region patronage, however, and shut down at the start of last century, only to be taken over by the city and subsequently be reopened as an historical exhibit un 1974.  
north_america_tampa_facts.html:  When to Go  The best weather and the greatest crowds occur from December until May, when temperatures average between 60 F and 80 F (15 C and 27 C), rainfall is slight and communal spirits are high. From June to September, soaring heat and pouring rain combine to create one huge open air humidor, a dramatically clammy and unpleasant atmosphere in which ferocious thunderstorms are frequent early-afternoon visitors.  This is also part of Florida's hurricane season which officially runs from June through November. The season regularly passes without catastrophic incident but as recently as a decade ago, a category-4 hurricane (innocuously and rather deceptively called Andrew), generating winds of up to 155mph (250kmph) and ocean surges over 18ft(5.5m)-high, passed through Florida on its way to becoming the most expensive natural disaster in US history. Oh, and did we mention that Florida has about 70 types of blood-sucking mosquitos? The only real reason for considering an extended visit at the peak of summer is that many other tourists will seriously consider staying away.    
north_america_tampa_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Accessible only by car, this popular park is spread out over 3400 acres (1360 hectares) on a spot 9mi (14.5km) to the north of Tampa and makes a refreshing changes from the commercial artifice of the area's theme parks. During the park's opening hours from 8am to sunset you can: accompany a ranger on educational walks around the greener; rent a canoe and plough along the docile Hillsborough River; randomly select a hiking trail; feed yourself over a picnic table; or plunge into the onsite swimming pool. To see a bit of pseudo-history, fork out a buck to take a self-guided tour of a reconstruction of Fort Foster. The original structure was erected in 1836 to help defend a river crossing during the Second Seminole War.  
north_america_taos_activities.html:  Activities  The variety of outdoor activities in the Taos area is exhaustive. With a peak elevation of 11,819 feet and a 2612-foot vertical drop, Taos offers some of the most challenging skiing in the USA and yet remains low-key and relaxed. Less-challenging downhill skiing can be found at Red River, Angel Fire and Ski Rio. Other popular and well-catered-for outdoor pursuits include white-water rafting in the Taos Box, swimming, mountain bike riding and hiking.  
north_america_taos_attractions.html:  Attractions  Built around 1450 and continuously inhabited ever since, Taos Pueblo is the largest existing multistoried pueblo structure in the USA and one of the best surviving examples of traditional adobe construction. An informal tour, ranging from 15 to 40 minutes depending on who is giving it, is offered daily (no fee, but you should tip the guide).  Taos Pueblo plays host to a wide range of cultural events through the year. If you're in the area in early January, don't miss the Native American dances. In February, March and August, Taos Pueblo may be closed for sacred ceremonial dances. You must pay a fee to photograph, videotape, sketch or paint the pueblo. Taos Pueblo is located in the Taos Pueblo Indian Reservation, a couple of miles northeast of town.  
north_america_taos_facts.html:  When to Go   Summer is the high season, coinciding with school vacations in both North America and Europe. Memorial Day weekend (end of May) to Labor Day weekend (beginning of September) is the vacation season; expect higher prices and more crowds.  The ski season in Taos and Santa Fe usually runs from Thanksgiving to Easter. August usually sees the Taos County Fair hit town, while October hosts the Taos Mountain Film Festival, first held in 2001. San Geronimo Day - 30 September though celebrations kick off the day before - is celebrated with dancing and food. It is one of the largest and most spectacular Native American celebrations in New Mexico.    
north_america_taos_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  On Highway 64 about 12mi (19km) northwest of Taos, the Rio Grande Gorge Bridge is the second-highest suspension bridge in the USA. Built in 1965, the vertigo-inducing steel bridge spans 500ft (150m) across the gorge and 650ft (200m) above the river below. The views west over the emptiness of the Taos Plateau and down into the jagged walls of the Rio Grande are incredible. From Taos, turn left at the blinking light and head out past the airport.  
north_america_toronto_activities.html:  Activities  Toronto is built for walking. The two-hour Humber River Discovery Walk offers an interesting route, while true outdoor enthusiasts will enjoy the Don River Valley ravine walk. Just east of the Beach neighborhood, Scarborough Bluffs has several parks with paths leading down to the lake and up to sweeping views. Free public swimming pools are found throughout the city, and there are sandy beaches and shady parks at The Beaches, about 8km (5mi) east of downtown, at Sunnyside Beach, about 8km (5mi) west and on Centre Island. Windsurfing and sailing are both popular on Lake Ontario.  Toronto also has some great places for bicycle riding and in-line skating. The Martin Goodman Trail along the waterfront is especially worthwhile, passing the Harbourfront and the downtown area on its way to the Humber River in the west. If you feel the need to push yourself, the Martin Goodman Trail links up with the Lake Ontario Waterfront Trail, which stretches 325km (200mi) from Hamilton to Trenton. High Park and the Toronto Islands are other convenient places to cycle and in-line skate.  Excellent golfing can be had on the first ever Jack Nicklaus-designed course, in the suburb of Oakville. In winter, there are good, free places for ice-skating at City Hall, the Harbourfront and Grenadier Pond in High Park, about 8km (5mi) west of downtown.  
north_america_toronto_attractions.html:  Attractions  Downtown encompasses many of Toronto's most significant and easily accessible attractions. The CN Tower - at 533m (1748ft) the highest freestanding structure in the world since 1976 - has become a symbol and landmark of Toronto. Impressive views only go so far, however, and many find the cost and long queues to the observation deck a turn-off. A better deal might be to dine in its 360 Revolving Restaurant instead. If feats of engineering really rock your boat, you may want to also visit the SkyDome next door. It features the world's first fully retractable dome roof, a striking interior and a playing field large enough to park eight 747s.  The Old Town of York is the city's truly unmissable attraction. Many of Toronto's oldest and best-preserved buildings can be found here. Highlights include the Flatiron Building, with its triangular shape and famous trompe l'oeil mural, and the St Lawrence Market, whose Market Gallery hosts exhibits of art and historic artifacts relating to the city. The North Market's clock tower is one of the city's finest examples of Victorian classicism. The venerable St James Cathedral is graced by Tiffany stained glass, a grand organ and the tallest spire in Canada. Pay your respects to the city by strolling up Toronto St, a narrow street full of elegant triple-story 19th-century office buildings.  The Harbourfront area is jumping with galleries and cultural centers, and its lakeshore breezes make for pleasant strolling when the humidity is up. A little further north, historic buildings such as Mackenzie House, Osgoode Hall and Campbell House vie for attention with the restored grandeur of the Elgin & Winter Garden Theatre Centre. Galleries and museums abound - the Art Gallery of Ontario and Museum for Textiles are two especially worth your time. Chinatown's bustling restaurants and stores add some spice to the mix.  
north_america_toronto_facts.html:  When to Go  Toronto has a warm summer (June-early October) filled with festivals and events, making it the best time to visit. July and August can get muggy, however. Many visitor-oriented facilities, attractions and accommodations reduce hours or close outside of summer, but the ones that remain open almost always have reduced rates and smaller crowds. Toronto gets downright frosty in winter (November-March), with cold spells averaging between 2 and minus-10 C (35-14 F). Luckily, indoor arts (symphonies, theater, opera) and sporting events (especially ice hockey) are at their liveliest during the snowy season.     Events  All of Toronto's main festivals and events take place between May and October, when there's little chance of snow and plenty of light by which to see them. The Toronto International Powwow, held at the Skydome in the middle of May, is a two-day event celebrating Native Indian culture with dancers, costumes and crafts. Summertime abounds with festivals, beginning with mid-June's Caravan, a nine-day cultural exchange between the city's ethnic groups. The annual Gay Pride Week culminates in an outrageous out-of-the-closet parade on Church St. The excellent Du Maurier Downtown Jazz Festival attracts local and international players in June and early July. With scarcely a beat lost, Toronto's music scene segues neatly into the Great Canadian Blues & BBQ Festival, enlivening the Harbourfront in early July.  Also in July, flags drop at the Molson Indy, Toronto's only major car race, and the Fringe Theatre Festival raises its curtains. In August Caribana, an ever-growing Caribbean festival, celebrates with a weekend of reggae, steel drum and calypso music and dance. Its finale, and main attraction, is a huge Rio-esque parade. Come September, the internationally renowned Toronto International Film Festival has cinema buffs swooning in the aisles. And for the bookish at heart, the Harbourfront International Festival of Authors, also usually held in September, is the largest literary event of its kind anywhere.  The major public holidays are New Year's Day (January 1), Easter (April), Victoria Day (May 21), Canada Day (July 1), Simcoe Day (August 6), Labour Day (September 3), Canadian Thanksgiving (October 8), Remembrance Day (November 11) and Christmas and Boxing Day (December 25-26).    
north_america_toronto_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The roaring spectacle of Horseshoe Falls - Canada's half of Niagara Falls - makes the town of Niagara Falls one of Canada's top tourist destinations, drawing over 12 million people annually. Canada's falls are grander and more powerful than the US Bridal Veil Falls, plunging 56m (185ft) down into the Maid of the Mist pool and clouding views of the falls from afar. The equivalent of more than 1 million bathtubs full of water goes over the falls every second. Even in winter, when the flow is partially hidden and the edges frozen solid - like a freeze-framed film - it's quite a sight.  There are numerous pay-for-view options to see the falls. Maid of the Mist boats take passengers up close for a loud and wet view from the bottom of the falls. From near Table Rock Information Centre you can don a plastic poncho and walk down through rock-cut tunnels halfway down the cliffside - as close as you can get to the falls without getting in a barrel (or going over to the USA side). You can also head to either the Minolta Tower or Skylon Tower to gaze at the falls from observation decks. About 6km (3.7mi) north of Horseshoe Falls on the Niagara River is the Spanish Aero Car - a sort of gondola stretched 550m (1800ft) between two outcrops that takes you above a whirlpool so you can see everything spinning in the water below.  Niagara Falls is about a two-hour drive from Toronto. Buses run every two hours or so and trains run twice a day.  
north_america_tucson_activities.html:  Activities  There's no shortage of activities in the Tucson area, thanks to its wonderful natural surrounds. Binocular-equipped Audubon disciples will have a field day (or two) with the local birdlife, such as hummingbirds, road-runners ( sans coyote) and elf owls. Physically more-demanding pastimes include hiking one or more of the many trails winding up into the nearby mountain ranges, rock climbing or skiing on Mt Lemmon, overnight horse riding excursions (accompanied by cook-outs under the stars) and hot-air ballooning over the remarkable landscape of southern Arizona. A number of Tucson-based companies also offer jeep tours of the desertscape.  
north_america_tucson_attractions.html:  Attractions  Tucson grew up around a large presidio (walled fort) that was built by the Spanish in 1775 to house a garrison charged with protecting settlers from the Indians. This piece of military architecture, dubbed Old Pueblo by later Anglo arrivals, is no longer standing, but the easily walkable Presidio Historic District is nonetheless home to a number of other interesting historic buildings. The oldest structure in the area, raised up from the ground over 150 years ago, is thought to be La Casa Cordova. You can check out its aged interior via the adjacent Tucson Museum of Art, which has some worthwhile permanent exhibits of contemporary art, attention-getting multimedia displays and pre-Columbian artefacts exhumed from the archaeologically rich soils of Latin America. The museum displays more of its collection in nearby Fish House, built in 1868 by politician Edward Fish, and in the similar-vintage Stevens House- both were seminal establishments for the late-19th century Tucson social scene.  South of the presidio district is the distracting modernistic bulk of the Tucson Convention Centre. At the centre's northwestern end you'll find the Sosa-Carillo-Fremont House Museum, a restored 1880s period home run by the Arizona Historical Society. The house's triple-barrelled moniker is a tribute to its first three owners, namely the families Sosa and Carillo, followed by one-time Arizona governor John Fremont. Further south is the Barrio Historico District, the city's centre of commerce in the late 1800s and still a neighbourhood with business on its mind. Just off Cushing St is El Tiradito, a weird and fairly decrepit little shrine piously devoted to a man who was murdered here by his father-in-law after being caught having an affair with his mother-in-law. Paradoxically, people burn candles here in an effort to make their wishes come true.  
north_america_tucson_facts.html:  When to Go  Tucson's high season lasts from mid-December to May, which is when the area's mild and sunny wintertime - coupled with the prospect of skiing at nearby Mt Lemmon - attracts North American residents from chillier, more-snowbound climes. You'll pay premium prices for hotel accommodation over this period. Other peak visitor times are major public holidays like the Memorial Day weekend (end of May) and the Labor Day weekend (beginning of September).  The period from May to September is far less popular with visitors - regardless of the fact that local hotels slash their room rates at this time - because this is when the city is at its hottest. Summer temperatures in south-central Arizona are among the highest in the USA, with the daily heat frequently surpassing 100 F (38 C) and occasionally blazing beyond 120 F (49 C). July and August can also bring monsoonal storms that contribute brief but heavy afternoon downpours. That said, Tucson is fortunate in that it resides at an altitude of 2500ft (750m), so its climate is a tad milder than that of lower-lying destinations such as the state capital Phoenix to the north. The region also has low humidity (referred to in Tucson as dry heat), which means that come nightfall the heat dissipates and temperatures drop markedly.     Events  If you're one of those people who are entertained by the spectacle of a small white ball being clubbed around some manicured paddocks, you'll want to be in Tucson in mid-January for the Tucson Open, a men's Professional Golfer's Association (PGA) tournament - the equivalent women's PGA tournament takes place in mid-March. Earthy types descend on the city over the first two weeks of February to take in exhibits at the Tucson Gem & Mineral Show, one of the biggest displays of shiny rubble in the country. La Fiesta de los Vaqueros, also known as Rodeo Week, is held from the last Thursday of February to the following Sunday, when Tucson puts on a smorgasbord (make that BBQ) of cowboy/girl events, along with what's billed as the world's largest nonmotorised parade.  In early March, the historic Mission San Xavier del Bac to the south of town is the venue for the Wa:k Powwow Conference, a singing, dancing and eating extravaganza staged by the local Tohono O'odham tribe for all the Indian communities living in the region. The mission also sets the scene for a number of religious ceremonies throughout the year, including the Friday after Easter, Christmas and the Fiesta of San Xavier in early December. On 5 May, South Tucson resounds with Hispanic parades, street stalls and concerts in celebration of Cinco de Mayo, the anniversary of Mexico's defeat of France in 1862's Battle of Puebla.   Downtown Saturday Night, an event organised by businesses in the local arts district, hits the streets (specifically the stretches of Congress St and Broadway Blvd between Stone and 4th Aves) on the first and third Saturday of each month between 7pm and 10pm. It entails free street performances and extended opening hours for art galleries in the area.    
north_america_tucson_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The splendid Santa Catalinas, part of Arizona's expansive Coronado National Forest, are geographically sandwiched between Tucson and, appropriately, the Tortilla Mountains. An outdoor nirvana for the many Tucson residents who want to escape the pain of indoor office-work or domestics, this mountain range encourages such relaxing activities as hiking, horse riding, bird watching and navel gazing. The most popular access point from Tucson is Sabino Canyon, a water-sluiced cutting serviced by a scenic 4mi (6.5km) road, numerous riverside picnic grounds and lots of lengthy hiking trails leading to higher ground. At the canyon entrance is an information-stocked visitor centre and ranger station.  A more remote locale for hiking and camping is Catalina State Park, 15mi (24km) north of Tucson in the Santa Catalina's western foothills. The area offers a range of day and multi-day walks, and some of the trails have attractive added extras such as swimming holes. The highpoint of the mountain range - and a favoured getaway year-round - is Mt Lemmon, which stretches up to 9157ft (2750m). In summer you can spend several days walking up to the summit's great views, or alternatively drive there in a single hour, while in winter the mountainside is transformed into the southernmost ski resort in the USA.  
north_america_usa_activities.html:  Activities  No matter what you're into - nude bungee jumping, organic ballooning, power fishing - you'll find a spot to do it and folks to do it with in America. And it will be bigger, faster, harder and better than anywhere else in the world.  While the Hawaiians may not have invented surfing, Oahu is surfing's spiritual home, and the legendary winter swells at Waimea, Sunset Beach and the Banzai Pipeline are the most beautiful and awesome waves. Not to be outdone, California also has a few surfable breaks itself - Malibu, Rincon, Trestles and Mavericks among them. There are a hundred other perfect breaks along the US coastline - but if we told you where they were, we'd have to kill you! Other popular watersports include sailing, windsurfing and sea kayaking.  Back on land, the Rocky Mountain states (and Colorado in particular) are home to the country's most popular downhill skiing and snowboarding destinations. Along with flash places like Aspen, Vail, Jackson Hole and Big Sky are smaller operations with a handful of lifts, cheaper ticket prices and terrain that is often as challenging as their glitzier neighbors. Lake Tahoe is the major ski destination in the Sierra Nevada, doubling as a summertime water-sports playground. Elsewhere in the US, you'll also find great cross-country skiing.  The US may be the most industrialized nation on earth, but it's also the land of opportunity when it comes to hiking - from the alpine meadows of the High Sierra to the forested byways of the Appalachian Trail. Walking trails are generally well kept, well marked and well patronized. But it's also possible to lose yourself in the 'backwoods,' where there's just you, the rattlers and the huge night sky.   Rock climbing and mountaineering are popular pursuits, especially in the Sierra Nevada and Rockies. El Capitan and Half Dome are both legendary climbs up the face of sheer granite walls in Yosemite National Park. Mt Whitney, in California's Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Park, is the highest in the contiguous 48 states at 14,500ft (4350m).  Many cities are relatively cycle-friendly, and hardy souls cycle across and around the country on picturesque backroads, while those stuck in tin cans fume on the freeways. It's easy to hire machines and gear throughout the country. Mountain biking is a huge pastime, particularly in California (where it was invented), and there are plenty of places to hit the gravel and graze the knees.  If you still have energy left, you can go horse riding in New York's Central Park, river rafting on Idaho's Snake River or caving in New Mexico's beautiful Carlsbad Caverns.  
north_america_usa_attractions.html:  Attractions  They don't come any bigger than the Big Apple - king of the hill, top of the heap, New York, New York. No other city is arrogant enough to dub itself Capital of the World and no other city could carry it off. New York is a densely packed mass of humanity - seven million people in 309 sq miles (800 sq km) - and that's just Manhattan, only a part of greater New York City. All this living on top of one another makes the New Yorker a special kind of person. Although it's hard to put a finger on what makes New York buzz, it's the city's hyperactive rush that really draws people here.  In a city that is so much a part of the global subconscious, it's pretty hard to pick a few highlights - wherever you go you'll feel like you've been there before. For iconic value, you can't surpass the Statue of Liberty, the Empire State Building, Central Park or Times Square. The Metropolitan Museum of Art is one of the world's top museums, and the Museum of Modern Art isn't far behind. Bookshops, food, theater, shopping, people: it doesn't really matter what you do or where you go in New York because the city itself is an in-your-face, exhilarating experience.  New York's famous hustle and bustle was abruptly cut short on September 11, 2001, when a terrorist attack in the form of two hijacked passenger aircraft razed the gleaming twin towers of the World Trade Center. Thousands of people were killed in the worst terrorist act ever on US soil. New York is currently in a state of shock. Whether this makes way for anger, disillusionment or optimism is yet to be seen. In the meantime, this spectacular city has a great deal of work ahead of it as it tries to rebuild its business district and its confidence.  
north_america_usa_environment.html:  Environment  The continental US stretches across North America 'from sea to shining sea.' It borders Canada to the north and Mexico to the south. Alaska juts out from northwestern Canada; Hawaii lies 2500 miles (4000km) off the country's western coast, in the middle of the Pacific. There are three major mountain ranges: the Appalachians in the east, the titanic Rocky Mountains in the west and the Sierra Nevada along the border of Nevada and California. The country has abundant natural resources and vast swaths of fertile soil.  The Atlantic Coast is the most heavily populated area and retains strong traces of its European heritage. This is where the oldest American cities, such as Boston, New York, Washington and Philadelphia are located, and where most of the major events in early American history took place. The central northeast is marked by the humongous Great Lakes (Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie and Ontario), which occupy an area larger than most European countries. The rivers and canals linking the lakes to the Atlantic Ocean made virtual seaports out of Midwestern cities like Chicago and Detroit.  The central area drained by the Mississippi, Missouri and Ohio Rivers is the grain basket of the country. Farther west, on the Great Plains, are the country's chief grazing areas. This is cowboy country, though today the trusty steeds tend to be battered pickup trucks rather than hi-ho Silvers. Desert predominates in the southwest, where the climate and degraded soils keep population density to a minimum, and where you really don't need much of a wind to see tumbleweed bouncing across the highway. Cross the Sierra Nevada and you're on the West Coast, which was settled by Americans only 150 years ago but has been on a headlong rush into the future ever since.  With such varied topography, the US has extremely diverse ecosystems. The most impressive flora are the huge evergreens of the West Coast, the sequoia and the redwood, some of which are believed to be the oldest living things on Earth. The eastern states are home to leafy hardwood forests of maple, oak and elm, which burst into color in autumn. The three most famous national parks are Yellowstone, in the Rockies; Yosemite, in the Sierra Nevada; and the Grand Canyon, in Arizona. The largest land mammals, such as black and grizzly bears, elk and deer, roam the northwestern states. The southern states are home to some of the most interesting fauna, including the marsupial opossum and the mean old alligator. Beasties to avoid include rattlesnakes, bears, wild boar, alligators and Hank, a gas station attendant from Perth Amboy, New Jersey.  The climate is temperate in most of the US. Generally, it gets hotter the farther south you go and seasonally more extreme the farther you are north and inland from the coasts. Winters in the northeast and upper Midwest can have long periods below freezing while it's still warm enough to swim at the beaches in Florida (which has a tropical climate) and southern California.  
north_america_usa_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most visitors to the US require a visa. However, Canadians need only proof of citizenship. A reciprocal visa-waiver program allows citizens of the UK, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland to stay up to 90 days without a visa if they have an onward ticket.Health risks: None, apart from the high cost of medical careTime: Eastern (GMT/UTC -5), Central (-6), Mountain (-7), and Pacific Standard (-8)Electricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & Measures: ImperialTourism: 45 million visitors per year When to Go  The US is most popular with travelers during the summer, but this is when American families pack everything up and head out to visit Aunt Tilly. To avoid mobs (especially throughout the national-park system), it's better to go during autumn or early spring.  Autumn is an especially good time to visit New England and the upper Great Lakes because fall colors are at their best. Most of the country east of the Rockies is hot and humid during summer, especially the south. The deserts between the Rockies and the Sierra Nevada are very hot and dry during the summer, especially in the southwest. California's southern coast is comfortable year-round, but if you want to experience the beach scene, it's best to visit between June and September.     Events  Americans love parades and pageantry, so there's no shortage of events and festivities. Half the country comes to a standstill during the Super Bowl, the roving American-football finale held in late January. New Orleans' Mardi Gras, in February or March, is a rowdy, touristy, bacchanalian knees-up. St Patrick's Day, in mid-March is celebrated with parades and pitchers of green beer; it's especially fervent in New York and Chicago. The Kentucky Derby is raced in Louisville in May.   Independence Day (the Fourth of July) is celebrated with lots of flag-waving patriotism, fireworks and the odd beverage. Inveterate travelers should drop into the National Hobo Convention in Britt, Iowa, in August. Halloween (October 31st) is a big deal for kids, who go trick-or-treating around their neighborhood in even worse clothes than they normally wear; in Greenwich Village, West Hollywood and San Francisco the holiday is subversively celebrated with glam parades. Americans go home to mom and pop for a big feed on Thanksgiving, the last Thursday of November.    
north_america_usa_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Out where the Sierras drop straight down into the sagebrush of eastern California's Owens Valley, truckers, hunters and road-trippers cruise Hwy 395. Though the road runs several thousand miles from the northern fringes of the Los Angeles basin to the Canadian border, the best leg stretches 250mi (400km) between Lone Pine, in the shadow of 14,500ft (4350m) Mt Whitney, and Carson City, Nevada. You can reenact scenes from Gunga Din and How the West Was Won, both shot in the Alabama Hills just west of Lone Pine, where's there's a film festival every October.  The Manzanar National Historic Site, about half an hour's drive north of Lone Pine, consists of the remains of one of the infamous 'relocation' camps in which American citizens of Japanese descent were imprisoned during WWII. A little farther on is the funky Eastern California Museum, a mixed bag of displays on natural history, Paiute Indian basketry and ancient Milk of Magnesia bottles. If you've still got a nest egg left when you reach Carson City, east of Lake Tahoe just over the Nevada border, let it ride at one of the town's many casinos.  
north_america_vancouver_activities.html:  Activities  A number of beaches offer good surfing. Long Beach in Vancouver Island's Pacific Rim National Park reputedly has the best waves in BC, though the water's very cold. You can swim at 11 beaches around Vancouver or at one of the city's aquatic centers. The rich and varied marine life in the local waters make scuba diving very rewarding. The best time to go is in the winter when the plankton has decreased and visibility often exceeds 20m (66ft). The top dive spots are the waters off the Pacific Rim National Park on Vancouver Island's western coast; in Georgia Strait between Vancouver Island's eastern coast and the mainland's Sunshine Coast, north of Vancouver; and in Queen Charlotte Strait off Vancouver's northeastern coast.   Canoeing, boating and kayaking are popular on the Fraser and Chilliwack rivers, which run south of the city, and the Gulf Islands southwest of Vancouver. Rivers close to Vancouver offering whitewater rafting include the Fraser, Thompson and Chilliwack. If fishing is your thing, several spots around Vancouver Island vie for the title 'Salmon Capital of the World.' The Queen Charlotte Islands and the Fraser and Thompson Rivers are also prime casting sites. The waters off the western coast of Vancouver Island offer excellent whale-watching. Killer (orca) whales and Pacific gray whales run north in spring and south in autumn.  Just minutes away from downtown, the mountains north of Vancouver have some great downhill and cross-country skiing and snowboarding. Grouse Mountain is the closest to downtown and is known for night skiing. Other nearby resorts include Cypress Bowl (also featuring night skiing) and Hollyburn. A little further afield is the glossier Whistler, located 100km (62mi) north of Vancouver, where you can ski year-round.  There's also cycling, inline skating and running; beach areas and the city's parks are all good places to head. There's climbing to be had at Juniper Point in West Vancouver's Lighthouse Park or at indoor centers. And if all that's not enough, there are over 70 golf courses in the region, gyms aplenty, ice skating rinks and tennis courts.  
north_america_vancouver_attractions.html:  Attractions  History buffs and dipsomaniacs wishing to raise a glass to town founder 'Gassy' Jack Deighton should head to the heart of Gastown, where the famed publican's statue stands. Along Water St at the crook of the elbow of the peninsula, the once-shabby Gastown underwent a bit of renovating in the 1970s to become a bright and shiny neo-Victorian business district. Nineteenth-century office buildings now house restaurants, bars, boutiques and galleries; old lamps line the brick streets and vendors and buskers add to the holiday feel of the area. At the western end of Water St is the world's first steam clock; you can see its works through glass panels and hear it toot every 15 minutes.  
north_america_vancouver_facts.html:  When to Go  The best time to visit is from early June to early October, when there's less rain, temperatures are warm, daylight hours are long and the transportation routes are open. Spring (March to May) and autumn (September to November) are good times for whale-watching. The winter ski season peaks in January and February, but at resorts like Whistler the slopes are open year-round.     Events  Just about any month you visit Vancouver there will be a festival of some sort taking place. The city kicks off the year with an icy dip in English Bay called the Polar Bear Swim, a New Year's Day event since 1819. The city's thriving Chinatown is the center of mid-February's Chinese New Year celebrations, which feature dancing dragons, parades and the constant crackle of firecrackers. June heats up with the Vancouver International Jazz Festival. On July 1 are the Canada Day Celebrations. Mid-July's Vancouver Folk Music Festival is three days of concerts and workshops with some of North America's best musicians. There's also Dancing on the Edge, Theatre Under the Stars, Vancouver International Comedy Festival and the highly regarded Vancouver Chamber Music Festival.  From mid-August through Labor Day, the Pacific National Exhibition offers a little bit of everything - parades, livestock shows, concerts, sporting events and carnival rides. Gay Pride Day happens the first Sunday in August. The Vancouver Fringe Festival, held from early to mid-September, is a mix of drama, musicals, comedy and dance from around the world. Vancouver International Film Festival gets it all happening for the celluloid community. October hosts the Vancouver International Writers (& Readers) Festival, and the uniquely Vancouver tradition of the Christmas Carolship Parade brings Christmas cheer on boats.   Public holidays January 1 - New Year's Day March/April - Good Friday March/April - Easter Monday Monday preceding May 24 - Victoria Day July 1 - Canada Day first Monday in August - BC Day first Monday in September - Labour Day second Monday in October - Thanksgiving November 11 - Remembrance Day December 25 - Christmas Day December 26 - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to VancouverTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_vancouver_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  In the southwest corner of the suburb Richmond is the old fishing village of Steveston, Canada's largest commercial fishing port. Steveston was settled largely by Japanese immigrants in the early 20th century. However, during WWII nearly all the Japanese Canadians were sent to internment camps inland, and their boats and homes were auctioned off. The Steveston Museum tells some of their stories, as well as giving an overview of the town's fishing past. There's more history to be had at Gulf of Georgia Cannery National Historic Site, a museum of the region's maritime past. It's housed in an old fish cannery; if little else, the cannery tours do reveal why you'd never wish to be a fish.  The old part of town that fronts onto Fraser River is quite charming, and has a number of good restaurants and pubs. There's lots of activity in the harbor, and the sights and smells of the fishing fleets make for a good escape from the rush of downtown Vancouver. To get to Steveston, take bus Nos 490 or 491 from Burrard Station.  
north_america_washington_dc_activities.html:  Activities  For outdoor recreation, residents head primarily to Rock Creek Park and the C&O Canal, both in northwestern Washington. There are well marked hiking and jogging tracks ranging from easy to strenuous in both parks. There's canoeing on the C&O Canal and other boating activities on the Potomac River.  A 10mi (16km) paved cycle path runs from below the Kennedy Center to Pierce Mill, largely along the wooded creek in Rock Creek Park. The C&O Canal towpath makes a great bike route, particularly for mountain bikes - it starts in Georgetown and stretches 184 miles (296km) into Maryland. Washington has more than 40 free public swimming pools to choose from; the one in Georgetown is among the best. When the ice is thick enough, you can ice skate on the C&O Canal. If you don't fancy this, try the small Sculpture Garden Ice Rink on the Mall.  
north_america_washington_dc_attractions.html:  Attractions  Three years after Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton decided that Washington should house the nation's capital in 1790, construction began on the grand Capitol that was to grace the hill east of the Potomac. By the turn of the century, the movers, shakers and lawmakers began to move in. The British nearly burned it to the ground in 1814, which demoralized the Americans almost enough to provoke the abandonment of the whole DC experiment. However, some last-minute resolve saw the Capitol rebuilt from 1817 to 1819. The House and Senate wings were added in 1857, the nine-million-pound iron dome in 1863 and the east face in the 1950s, making the current icon over twice as large as the original building. The Capitol is the epicenter of the city as well as being its most prominent landmark; Washington's major avenues intersect at an imaginary point under the dome. If you want to watch Congress in session, you'll have to get a pass for the visitors' gallery from your Congressional Representative (if you have one) or the Sergeant-at-Arms (if you don't).  The dramatic Capitol Rotunda is decorated with a fresco painted by Italian immigrant Constantino Brumidi. Called The Apotheosis of Washington, it shows George Washington being welcomed into heaven by 13 angels representing the original 13 states (and apparently modelled on 13 local prostitutes). The hallways are decorated with more murals, showing the nation's heroes and their deeds - the most recent is a portrait of the dead Challenger astronauts. Statuary Hall is filled with stone men - theoretically two distinguished citizens from each state, but in principal a few less than that, as the floor wasn't strong enough to bear the weight of so much marble.  
north_america_washington_dc_facts.html:  When to Go  The most comfortable times to visit Washington are in spring (March to May) and fall (September to November). The official tourist season runs from April through September. It's a good idea to buy advance tickets to popular attractions during this period because the queues can be monstrous.  Summers are hot and humid, especially in July and August. If you can bear the heat, this can be a good time to visit, as business travel to DC slumps and accommodation rates fall accordingly. Snowman aficionados may get a kick out of winter. If you plan on being in town for the city's biggest events - the Cherry Blossom Festival in March, the Smithsonian Folklife Festival in June and Independence Day in July - book ahead.     Events  The city is best known for its Cherry Blossom Festival in March-April and for the Smithsonian's Folklife Festival in June. Independence Day is a big event, including a troops parade, the reading of the Declaration of Independence, concerts and fireworks over the Potomac. Other highlights include Martin Luther King Jr's Birthday on the third Monday in January, when orators recite King's 'I have a dream' speech at the Lincoln Memorial; the Smithsonian Kite Festival (late March), when kite designers, flyers and competitors gather on the Mall for this rite of spring; April's White House Easter Egg Roll, which the First Lady hosts for children under eight; and the Festival of American Folk Life, hosted by the Smithsonian on the last weekend in June.  In September, Adams-Morgan Day is a huge international block party with global music, food and crafts along and around 18th St NW and Columbia Rd. This is also the month for the National Frisbee Festival (watch your head when wandering the Mall) and the DC Blues Festival (free concerts around town). On the second Thursday in December, the President illuminates the national Christmas tree and lights a menorah on the Ellipse. There's outdoor partying on New Year's Eve at the Old Post Office.   Public holidays January 1 - New Year's Day third Monday in January - Martin Luther King Kr Day January 20 every fourth year - Inauguration Day third Monday in February - Presidents' Day March/April - Easter Last Monday in May - Memorial Day July 4 - Independence Day first Monday in September - Labor Day second Monday in October - Columbus Day November 11 - Veterans' Day fourth Thursday in November - Thanksgiving Day December 25 - Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to Washington DCTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_america_washington_dc_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The scenic and historic C&O Canal runs from Georgetown, a northwestern neighborhood of DC, 184 miles (296km) to Cumberland, Maryland. Originally envisioned as part of a never-completed western passage joining Chesapeake Bay and the Ohio River, the C&O Canal contains 74 lift locks that rise from near sea level to an elevation of 605ft (180m). A dusty towpath alongside the canal was trod by children (paid four cents a day by some accounts) leading mules, who in turn pulled barges through the canal. The advent of the railroads rendered the canal obsolete.  Today the canal corridor along the Potomac is preserved as a national park and is a major recreational resource for hikers, cyclists, boaters, backpackers and horseback riders. Georgetown isn't easily accessible by public transport, though it's a nice walk west along Pennsylvania Ave from the Foggy Bottom station when the weather is decent.  
north_east_asia_beijing_activities.html:  Activities  To paraphrase an old adage, 'when in Beijing do as the Beijingers do' - bike it. A blockbuster bike tour allows you to experience the city as its residents do and gives you access to the narrow, spidery hutongs. In winter there are heaps of ice-skating venues around the city, including Beihai Lake, Kunming Lake, Zizhuyan Park and the moat around the Forbidden City. Flying kites is an old tradition in China and Beijing's venue for this activity is Tiananmen Square. Kites are for rent in the square itself.  Also worth checking out is the Yuanmingyuan Ruyi Martial Arts School opposite the Summer Palace, where you can study  gongfu (kungfu) and  qigong.  As well, a whiff of the tourist dollar has sent Chinese entrepreneurs scrambling up the rock face of the adventure sport economy. In and around Beijing there's a mushrooming choice: paragliding, hang-gliding, rock climbing, diving with sharks, skiing (Hebei's ski resorts are within reach), bungee jumping, horseback riding and more.  
north_east_asia_beijing_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Forbidden City, which was off-limits to most of the world for 500 years, is the biggest and best preserved cluster of ancient buildings in China. Although the 'hundred surnames', or hoi polloi, are now permitted entrance, its original owners, the emperors of the Ming and Qing dynasty, insulated themselves from the masses and maintained a rigid one-way communications flow. Regal fiats from the nerve centre of the country were delivered to peasant subjects beyond the wall by eunuchs and other powerful court officials.  The old world of beautiful concubines and priapic emperors, ball-breaking (and -broken) eunuchs and conspicuous wealth still hovers around the lush gardens, courtyards, pavilions and great halls of the palace. Most of the buildings are post-18th century; there have been periodic losses due to an injudicious mix of lantern festivals and Gobi winds, invading Manchus and, in this century, pillaging and looting by both the Japanese forces and the Kuomintang. A permanent restoration squad takes about 10 years to renovate its 720,000 square metres, 800 buildings and 9000 rooms, by which time it's time to start all over again.  
north_east_asia_beijing_facts.html:  When to Go  Summer (June to August) is considered peak season, when hotels typically raise their rates and the Great Wall nearly collapses under the weight of marching tourists. The autumn months between September and November have the best weather and fewer tourists. Spring is less pleasant - not many tourists but lots of wind and dust. In winter, you'll have Beijing to yourself and many hotels offer substantial discounts - just remember it's an ice box outside. Everything is chock-a-block during the Chinese New Year (usually in January or February).     Events   Chinese New Year, or Spring Festival, is by far the biggest festival of the year. It starts on the first day of the first moon according to the traditional lunar calendar, in January or February. Although officially lasting only three days, many people take a week off work. Fifteen days after the New Year is the Lantern Festival. Though not a public holiday, it's a colourful time to visit Beijing, with people walking the streets at night carrying coloured paper lanterns. The birthday of Guanyin, the Goddess of Mercy, is a great time to visit Buddhist temples. It happens on the 19th day of the second moon (March/April).   Tomb Sweeping Day is a day for worshipping ancestors; people visit the graves of their dearly departed relatives and clean their gravesites. They often burn 'ghost money' (for use in the afterworld) for the departed. It falls on 5 April in the Gregorian calendar in most years; 4 April in leap years. Beijing is probably at its prettiest on the first of May, a holiday for Communists officially known as International Labour Day. During this time, the whole city (especially Tiananmen Square) is decorated with flowers. The Mid-Autumn Festival is also known as the Moon Festival and is the time to eat tasty moon cakes. It takes place in September, on the 15th day of the 8th moon. October sees a celebration of Confucius' birthday.    
north_east_asia_beijing_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  In the late 1960s, with a Soviet invasion looming, Beijing's citizens started to go underground. The shadow city which resulted was constructed by volunteers and shop assistants living in the Qianmen (Front Gate) area south of Tiananmen Square. About 2000 people with simple tools and 10 years of spare time created this subterranean network, which has now been put to use as an unofficial tourist attraction and site for everything from warehouses to hotels, restaurants and even a roller-skating rink. There are roughly 90 entrances to the complex, all of which are hidden in shops along Qianmen's main streets. A fluorescent wall map reveals the routing of the entire tunnel system.  
north_east_asia_china_activities.html:  Activities  The bicycle is the unofficial symbol of China, and with more than 300 million trundling about you'll have no trouble hiring anything from a rattly old local Forever brand to a half-decent multi-speed mountain bike. Even in towns that don't see many tourists, there are hire shops catering to Chinese who are passing through. Cycling tours are popular and many Chinese and Western travel agents offer short and long-term biking jaunts. Camping along the way is also possible if you can find a few spare blades of grass.  If it wasn't for the ubiquitous and ridiculously expensive permits, mountaineers, white-water rafters, hang-gliders and other adventurous types would be over China like a rash. Instead you're far more likely to encounter mountains of red tape. At least hikers can carry on regardless without having to obtain a permit, as they don't need much equipment. But opportunities for hardcore hiking can be limited to trails fitted out with handrails, steps, souvenir vendors and restaurants. One solution is to go underground. Caving, particularly in the south-west provinces, can be a lot of fun - but be prepared to get wet and muddy.   Camel rides are popular in Inner Mongolia and in the deserts around Dunhuang (Gansu province), and horse riding in the hills of Xinjiang and west of Beijing can be a beautiful way to spend the day. Winter offers ice skating on Beijing's lakes and skiing (downhill and cross-country) in the northeast provinces, but Westerners with big clodhoppers may have to bring their own boots.  More sedate pursuits include tai chi, a popular form of slow-motion aerobics practised in nearly every town park in the early morning throughout the land. Novices are always welcome. For brain exercising, most universities offer courses to fee-paying foreign students; possible subjects include Chinese language study, Chinese medicine, acupuncture, brush painting and music.  
north_east_asia_china_attractions.html:  Attractions  As a capital, Beijing casts a long shadow over the rest of China. Regardless of time meridians, Beijing time is followed nationwide; around the country, the Beijing dialect - Putonghua - is spoken; and places such as Tibet and Ürümqi are forced to refer to the central government on all matters. For Beijing, the dictum that a nation's capital doesn't reflect the nature of the country as a whole is especially true. Instead it's a People's Republic of China (PRC) showpiece and a city of orderly design, with long, straight boulevards crisscrossed by lanes. Places of interest are easy to find if they're located on these avenues - and nearly impossible to find if they're buried down the narrow alleys. The city's central core was once a walled enclosure, and it still maintains its ancient symmetry based on a north-south axis passing through the Front Gate (Qianmen).  
north_east_asia_china_environment.html:  Environment  The third-largest country in the world, China is bounded to the north by the deserts of Mongolia, to the west by the inhospitable Tibetan plateau and the Himalaya, and to the east by the East and South China seas. China's 22 provinces and five autonomous regions are governed from Beijing, along with some 5000 islands. Hong Kong and Macau have returned to the fold as Special Administrative Regions (SAR). Disputed territories are dotted near and far around China's south-east coast. Taiwan - a festering dispute that flares up from time to time - is the best known. Then there's the oil-rich Spratly Island group which every country in the region wants to suck dry, the Diaoyutai Islands (known as Senkaku to the Japanese), the Paracels (or Xisha, if China gets its way), and the Pescadores (or Penghu).  The topography included in China's vast panorama runs the gamut from towering mountains to featureless plains, the terrain descends across the planet from Tibet's 'roof of the world' in the west, down through the Inner Mongolia Plateau and east to the plains of the Yangzi River valley. In the south-west, the Yunnan-Guizhbou Plateau has a lacerated terrain with numerous gorge rapids, waterfalls, underground caverns and limestone pinnacles, making it one of the country's most spectacular regions. Inland features include the Taklamakan Desert shifting salt lakes and the Turpan Depression (China's hottest region, and known as the Oasis of Fire). Melting snow from the mountains of western China and the Tibetan Plateau provides the headwaters for many of the country's major trade routes: the Yangzi, Yellow, Mekong and Salween rivers.  Given China's size, it's only to be expected that its plant and animal life is diverse. Unfortunately, much of the country's rich natural heritage is rare, endangered or extinct, largely due to the destruction of habitat caused by agriculture, urbanisation and industrial pollution. Magnificent animals endemic to China - but found in increasingly low numbers - include pandas, snow leopards, elephants, argali sheep, wild yaks, reindeer, moose, musk deer, bears, sables and tigers. Bird-watchers can spot cranes, ducks, bustards, egrets, swans and herons in the country's lakes and nature reserves (of which there are more than 300). China's plant life has fared a little better under the crunch of a billion people, but deforestation, grazing and intensive cultivation have all taken their toll. The last great tracts of forest are in the subarctic north-eastern region near the Russian border, while the tropical south is home to the country's most diverse plant life, including rainforest. China's many useful plants include bamboo, ginseng, angelica and fritillary.  China's climate ranges from bitterly cold to unbearably hot, and a whole lot in between. Temperatures in the north can drop to -40 C (-40 F) in winter (December-March) and rise to 38 C (100 F) in summer (May-August). The central Yangzi River valley area also experiences extreme seasonal temperatures. In the far south, the hot and humid summer lasts from April to September and, as in north China, coincides with the rainy season. Typhoons can hit the southeast coast between July and September. The northwest experiences dry, hot summers, with China's nominated hottest place - Turpan - receiving maximums of around 47 C (117 F). Winters here are as formidably cold as in the rest of northern China.  
north_east_asia_china_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are required by all foreigners entering mainland China although, at this stage, visas are not required by Western nationals visiting Hong Kong and Macau. Travelers in transit can stay in China visa-free for up to 24 hours as long as they have an onward air ticket for a flight from China to another destination departing within that time period. Visas are available from Chinese embassies and consulates in most countries.Health risks: Rabies, bilharzia, dengue fever, malaria and cholera are all present. Immunisation against cholera, Diptheria and Tetanus, hepatitis A and B, Japanese B Encephalitis, polio, rabies and typhoid is considered essential.Time:GMT/UTC +8 (the whole of China is set to Beijing time).Electricity: 220V, 50Hz; plugs can be three-pronged angled, three-pronged round, two flat pins or two narrow round pins.Weights & measures: Metric When to Go  Spring (March-April) and autumn (September-October) are the best times to visit China. Daytime temperatures range from 20 C to 30 C (68 F-86 F) in these seasons, but nights can be bitterly cold and it can be wet and miserable. Major public holidays, in particular Chinese New Year, are best avoided as it's difficult to get around and/or find accommodation.     Events   Chinese New Year (or Spring Festival) starts on the first day of the lunar calendar, which usually falls in February. Although officially lasting only three days, many people take a week off. Ear plugs are handy at this time to dull the firecracker assaults, and prices of hotel rooms tend to go through the roof. The Lantern Festival isn't a public holiday, but it's big and it's colourful. It falls on the 15th day of the 1st moon (around mid-Feb to mid-March) and marks the end of the new-year celebrations. The famous lion dances occur throughout this period. Tomb Sweeping Day is in April, and sees Chinese families spend the day tending the graves of departed loved ones. Hong Kong hosts one of the liveliest annual Chinese celebrations - the Dragon Boat Festival. Usually held in June, the festival honours the poet Qu Yuan and features races between teams in long ornate canoes. Many Westerners take part in the races, but plenty of practice is needed to get all the paddles working as one.  Special prayers are held at Buddhist and Taoist temples on full-moon and sliver-moon days. Temple and moon-based festivities include Guanyin's Birthday (late March to late April), Mazu's Birthday (May or June), Water-Splashing Festival (13-15 April), Ghost Month (late August to late September), Mid-Autumn Moon Festival (October) and the Birthday of Confucius (28 September).    
north_east_asia_china_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  In a country where provincial capitals are rarely known for their beauty, Nanjing shines. The construction work that's churning up the face of China seems to have affected this city less than most and it remains a place of broad boulevards and shady trees. This is just as well considering the oppressive summer heat that grips Nanjing, which is known as one of China's 'three furnaces'. The city enjoyed its golden years under the Ming, and there are numerous reminders of the period to be found. One of the most impressive is the Ming city wall measuring over 33km - the longest city wall ever built in the world. About two-thirds of it still stands. On the slopes just east of Nanjing is the Sun Yatsen Mausoleum. Sun is recognised by the communists and the Kuomintang alike as the father of China. Nanjing is asscessible by rail, bus and air. It is roughly 1000km (620mi) from Beijing.  
north_east_asia_hong_kong_activities.html:  Activities  There are plenty of bike paths in the New Territories, and it's easy to rent a bike, especially around Tolo Harbour. If you like fishing, there are plenty of people who'll take you out on a boat, or you can dip your rod in one of the city's reservoirs. You'll need to be cashed up to play on one of Hong Kong's five golf courses - if you're not, try hiking in Country Parks. Lantau Island and the MacLehose Trail in the New Territories are also good for a leg stretch. There are good beaches everywhere except Kowloon and the north side of Hong Kong Island - the best ones are on the Outlying Islands. Windsurfing and sailing are both extremely popular, and there are several yacht clubs and outlets where you can rent boards or small craft. Tennis and gym are also popular.  
north_east_asia_hong_kong_attractions.html:  Attractions  Hong Kong Island is the glitzy big brother of Kowloon - a tightly packed, towering paean to market capitalism that hasn't been dented one jot by Chinese rule. The bustle of people living and working is the biggest attraction on the island, although many visitors head around to Aberdeen, on the southern side of the island, where 6000 people live or work on junks anchored in the harbour. Sampan tours of the Aberdeen Harbour are definitely worth the expense. The other major draw is the floating restaurants.  The most popular beach is Repulse Bay, also on the southern side of the island, but it gets extremely crowded on weekends. Stanley, with its laid-back atmosphere, is another good spot for escaping Hong Kong's hustle and bustle, although it is the hustle and bustle that brings people here in the first place - if you want real solitude, you've come to the wrong place. City attractions include the Central Market, which visitors will have no trouble finding (just sniff the air), the old Man Mo Temple and the Zoological & Botanic Gardens. Hong Kong Island is steep, so if your'e heading away from the harbour, do as the locals do and ride the 800m (870 yards) outdoor escalator.  
north_east_asia_hong_kong_facts.html:  When to Go  Many prefer to visit Hong Kong during November and December when there are pleasant breezes, plenty of sunshine and comfortable temperatures. January and February are okay months, but the temperature can drop to below 10 C (50 F). Warmer temperatures make March and April pleasant months to go, but as the year progresses into May the air becomes uncomfortably sticky and humid, and by September you can expect typhoons. Hotels tends to offer substantial discounts outside the high seasons of March-April and October-November. Travel can be difficult during Chinese New Year, late January/early February.     Events  Use of the Western calendar and the Chinese lunar calendar can make trying to determine the exact date of festivals a bit tricky. Chinese New Year takes place in late January/early February, and many people get four days off for the event. Expect a massive fireworks display over Victoria Harbour. Lantern Festival takes place in mid to late February. Lanterns are lit in homes, restaurants and temples. February also has the Hong Kong Arts Festival. In late March/early April the Hong Kong International Film Festival comes to town. The Tin Hau Festival is a Taoist festival falling around late April. Junks are decorated and sail in long rows to Tin Hau temples to pray for clear skies and good fishing. The Dragon Boat Festival is held in June, with dragon boat races taking place in Hong Kong and Outlying Islands. In mid-September the Mid-Autumn Festival happens. The Festival of Asian Arts is a major international event and usually occurs in October or November.   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day January/February - Chinese New Year late March/April - Easter early April - Ching Ming late April - Buddha's Birthday 1 May - Labour Day June - Dragon Boat/Tuen Ng Festival 1 July - Hong Kong SAR Establishment Day 1 October - National Day early October - Chinese Mid-Autumn Festival late October - Cheung Yeung 25 December - Christmas Day 26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to Hong KongTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_east_asia_hong_kong_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Although a third of Hong Kong's population lives in new towns constructed in the New Territories, the area has some scenic escapes, including the Sai Kung Peninsula, in the east, which is an unspoilt playground for hikers, campers, swimmers and boaters. Bird-watchers head to the Mai Po Marsh; cyclists and walkers head to Plover Cove Reservoir; hiking enthusiasts set out on the 100km-long (62mi-long) MacLehose Trail which spans the New Territories from Tuen Mun in the west to Pak Tam Chung in the east. Shui Tau, a walled village on the outskirts of Kam Tin, is one of several small communities in the area famous for its carved roofs and traditional-style Chinese houses.  
north_east_asia_japan_activities.html:  Activities  Many of Japan's national parks have hiking routes. Around Tokyo, the popular hiking areas are Nikko and Chichibu-Tama National Park. There are good but isolated hikes in Gumma prefecture and in the Kansai region of Nara. To experience a Japan that few foreigners see, head for the mountainous, less populated Central Alps. Skiing is normally possible from December to April. The majority of resorts are on the island of Honshu, but there's also great powder skiing on Hokkaido. The Okinawan islands in the far south-west of Japan are popular diving destinations. Cycling is most popular in the less hilly coastal regions, although intrepid cyclists have been known to ride up Mt Fuji! Golf equals prestige in Japan. If you want to set foot on a green, a fat wallet and corporate clout are handy assets. Green fees usually start at around US$100 a day.  
north_east_asia_japan_attractions.html:  Attractions  The sheer level of energy is the most striking aspect of Japan's capital city. It's true the larger picture can be somewhat depressing - shoebox housing estates and office blocks traversed by overhead expressways crowded with traffic. But this is the Japanese success story in action. The average Tokyo suburb hasn't fallen prey to supermarket culture though: streets are lined with tiny specialist shops and bustling restaurants, most of which stay open late into the night. Close to the soaring office blocks exist pockets of another Tokyo - an old wooden house, a kimono shop, a Japanese inn, an old lady in a kimono sweeping the pavement outside her home with a straw broom. More than anything else, Tokyo is a place where the urgent rhythms of consumer culture collide with the quieter moments that linger from older traditions. It's a living city and you'll never run out of things to explore.  Tokyo is a vast conurbation spreading out across the Kanto Plain from Tokyo-wan Bay. Almost completely rebuilt after an earthquake in 1923 and again after US air raids in WWII, Tokyo has literally risen from the ashes. It's roughly split into the flashy commercial and business districts west of the central Ginza shopping precinct, and the more down-to-earth residential neighbourhoods to the east. For visitors, nearly everything of interest lies either on or within the JR Yamanote line, the rail loop that circles central Tokyo.  Magical memories of Tokyo don't come from standard sightseeing, as this isn't a city of architectural brilliance flooded with monuments. Pragmatic considerations were foremost in the postwar rebuilding, which has made for some pretty dull streetscapes. The real Tokyo experiences are soaking up the hustle and bustle and revelling in the pockets of calm. Ginza is the most famous shopping area in Tokyo: it's opulent, vital and popular, and is the place to be seen emptying your wallet. Ginza is overflowing with small private galleries, too, making it a lovely place to browse even if you're not looking to buy. Ueno-Koen, a park north of the centre, has some of Japan's best museums and galleries. The Tokyo National Museum holds the world's largest selection of Japanese art; the National Science Museum is a massive free-for-all packed with scientific goodies; and the Shitamachi History Museum is a recreation of the plebeian downtown quarters of old Tokyo.  Long considered the heart of old downtown, Asakusa, north-east of the centre, is one of the few places where you can experience something of the real-life flavour of old Shitamachi. The big attraction here is Senso-ji Temple, probably the liveliest place of Buddhist worship in all Japan, but the whole area is great for a wander. Asakusa was once an infamous 'pleasure district', a fairground of theatre, music and the seedier side, and vestiges of gaudiness and glamour remain. Shinjuku, west of the centre, is present-day Tokyo's rowdiest entertainment quarter.  If you have only a day in town and want to dive headfirst into the modern Japanese phenomenon, this sprawling, relentless district is the place to go. Nearly everything that makes Tokyo interesting bashes elbows here: high-class department stores, discount shopping arcades, flashing neon, government offices, swarming push-and-shove crowds, streetside video screens, stand-up noodle bars, hostess clubs, tucked-away shrines and sleazy strip bars.  Tokyo is an expensive place to bed down. There are a couple of youth hostels west of the centre and some relatively cheap options in Ueno and Ikebukuro. Otherwise, Shinjuku can be a good bet, if you don't mind squishing into a capsule hotel. Shinjuku is also one of the best eating areas. Ueno and Asakusa are good places for traditional Japanese food. Ginza is good by day, but is best avoided for evening eating - it's invariably expensive.  
north_east_asia_japan_environment.html:  Environment  Japan floats like a dismembered seahorse along the eastern rim of the Asian continent. Around 10,000 years ago, during the last big melt, sea levels rose enough to flood the land bridge connecting Japan with the mainland. Today Japan consists of a chain of islands (four major ones and some 1000 small ones) riding a 3000km (1860mi) arc of mountains, the tallest of which is the perfectly symmetrical Mt Fuji (3776m/12,385ft). Many of these mountains are volcanic, blessing the islands with numerous hot springs and spectacular scenery, but at the same time bringing the danger of earthquakes and tsunami (tidal waves). Japan has the dubious distinction of being one of the most seismically active regions of the world. It is calculated that the country gets around 1000 earthquakes a year, most of them too small to notice without sophisticated seismic equipment or a very elaborate hairstyle.  Japan's latitudinal spread, ranging from subtropical in the south to sub-arctic in the north, makes for a wide diversity of flora and fauna. Much of what you see in Japan today isn't what was there to begin with. This is not just because of Japan's reckless flight into modernity (deforestation, pollution and acid rain) but also because of the relatively recent large-scale importation of plants from Europe and the USA. Fortunately, the sheer inaccessibility of much of Japan's mountainous topography has preserved areas of great natural beauty - in particular the alpine regions of central Honshu and the natural parks of Hokkaido. Japan's largest carnivorous mammals are its bears - a brown bear (found in Hokkaido) can grow to a height of 2m (6.5ft) and weigh up to 400kg (884lb). Animals unique to Japan include the macaque and the giant salamander. The Iriomote wildcat, found in the Okinawa island group, is classified as a 'living fossil'.  Japan is frequently cast as an environmental vandal, slaughtering whales and dolphins, hacking down rainforests and polluting the ocean and atmosphere, all in the name of the rising yen. There's more than a little truth to it. Japan's low level of green consciousness means that drift-net fishing still occurs, whales continue to be hunted for alleged 'scientific research', goods are so overpackaged that consumption turns into solo pass-the-parcel, appliances are thrown away with alarming abandon, and the demand for rainforest timber, mostly from Malaysia, is unabated. Government action is usually more decisive when the Japanese environment is directly affected (surprise!). Industrial air and water pollution has been curbed since the choking mid-1970s, although photochemical smog remains a problem in Tokyo and other urban centres.  
north_east_asia_japan_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US passport holders, most EU residents and visitors from Australia do not require a visa if staying in Japan less than 90 days. South African residents are among those who are required to get a visa.Health risks: NoneTime:GMT/UTC +9Country code: 81International dialling code: 010Electricity: 100V; 50 Hz (Tokyo and eastern Japan), 60 Hz (western Japan)Weights & measures: MetricUseful Contacts:Ambulance: 119Fire: 119Police: 110Japan Helpline (English speaking): 0120-461 997Japan National Tourist Organization:www.japantravelinfo.com When to Go  Spring (March to May), with its clear skies and cherry blossoms, is probably the most celebrated Japanese season, but it's a holiday period for the Japanese and many of the more popular travel destinations tend to be flooded with domestic tourists. Autumn (September to November) is a great time to travel: the temperatures are pleasant, and the autumn colours in the countryside are fantastic. Mid-winter (December to February) can be bitterly cold, while the sticky summer months (June to August) can turn even the briefest excursion out of the air conditioning into a soup bath; on the plus side, major tourist attractions will generally be quieter at these times of the year. It's also worth considering peak holiday seasons when you plan your trip. Moving around and finding accommodation during New Year, Golden Week (late April to early May) and the midsummer O-Bon festival can be a real headache.     Events  Expect a total sell-out for travel and lodging during Japan's biggest holidays, New Year (December 29 to January 6) and Golden Week (the lumping together of Green Day, Constitution Day and Children's Day from April 27 to May 6). Other festivals include Adult's Day, or Lucky Monday (second Monday in January), when ceremonies are held for boys and girls who have reached the age of majority (20). The Japanese celebrate the end of winter on February 3 or 4 by indulging in Setsubun (bean throwing) while chanting 'in with good fortune, out with the devils'. Hanami (Blossom Viewing) usually runs from February to April; the romantic Tanabata Matsuri (Star Festival) is on July 7; and O Bon (Festival of the Dead), when lanterns are floated on rivers, lakes or the sea to signify the return of the departed to the underworld, takes place from mid-July to the end of August.  Kyoto's Gion Matsuri (July 17) is perhaps the most renowned of all Japanese festivals. The climax is a parade of massive man-dragged floats decked out in incredible finery, harking back to a 9th-century request to the gods to end a plague sweeping the city. In the cute and kooky department, Niramekko Obisha (January 20; Chiba) combines a staring contest with consumption of sake - the one with the straightest face wins. The Yah-Yah Matsuri (first Sunday to the following Saturday of February; Owase) is an argument contest: competitors scream Samurai chants and try to look fearsome. Afterwards, they take off all their clothes and jump in the ocean. Knickers Giving Day (March 14) is a bizarre follow up to Valentine's Day - men are supposed to give a gift of underwear to their lady.    
north_east_asia_japan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Kirishima, in southern Kyushu, is known for its superb mountain scenery, hot springs, the impressive Senriga-taki Waterfall and spring wildflowers. The day walk from Ebino-kogen Village to the summits of a string of volcanoes is one of the finest volcanic hikes in Japan. Shorter walks include a stroll around a series of volcanic lakes - Lake Rokkannon has the most intense colour, a deep blue-green. The southern view from the summit of Mt Karakuni-dake is superb: on a clear day you can see right down to Kagoshima, the nearest large city, and the smoking cone of Sakurajima, a decidedly overactive volcano. A direct bus runs from Kagoshima to Ebino-kogen.  
north_east_asia_kyoto_activities.html:  Activities  There's an infinite number of things to do in Kyoto besides visiting temples and shrines. In addition to shopping, hiking and people-watching, there are many places to get hands-on experience in traditional arts and crafts. If calligraphy is your thing, you can go to the Shoho-in Temple and try your hand at copying Buddhist scriptures in some of Kyoto's most peaceful surrounds; you'll be provided with brushes and all materials. If you'd like to learn more about the tea ceremony it's possible, at the Research Centre in Northern Kyoto, to view a 20 minute tea-making procedure and also sample a bowl of matcha. If braiding appeals to you, check out braid-maker Adachi Kumihimo-kan, who has a gallery of beautiful pieces on display; you can weave your own braid on wooden hand looms. Kyoto is well kitted out with  ikebana schools. Paper-making courses are also available, and there are several schools offering pottery classes.  Several of Kyoto's Zen temples offer public  zazen (seated meditation) where you can discover what the 'mystery' of Zen is all about. Though these temples welcome visitors to participate, bear in mind that zazen is not held for the benefit of tourists and may not always live up to the perfect image of bald monks in robes. After a day spent marching from temple to temple, nothing feels better than a good hot bath. Kyoto is full of sento (public baths), ranging from small neighbourhood baths with one or two tubs to massive complexes offering saunas, mineral baths and even electric baths.  
north_east_asia_kyoto_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Imperial Palace was built in 794 AD and, after destruction by fires, has undergone countless rebirths. Ceremonies related to the enthronement of a new emperor and other state functions are still held here, and the palace is full of priceless treasures, including sliding screens adorned with Tosa school paintings. The hall was initially used as living quarters for the emperor, but was later set aside for ceremonial use only. Foreigners are given preferential access to the palace and can usually obtain permission to enter in a few hours (though sometimes it can stretch to two days), while Japanese visitors - unless accompanied by a foreigner as an interpreter - can sometimes wait months. Twice-yearly, in spring and autumn, the palace grounds are chock-full when the inner sanctum is opened to the public for several days.  
north_east_asia_kyoto_facts.html:  When to Go  Weather-wise, spring and autumn are probably the best times to visit Kyoto, although they're also popular times for tourists and school groups. Having said that, although the summers (June-Aug) can be muggy, it's still a nice time to be there. If you're really out to avoid crowds, winter (Dec-Feb) - though very cold - might be just your ticket. Holidays and festivals are celebrated with crowded gusto in Kyoto, so cherry-blossom season in April and Golden Week (late April/early May) are great times to be in the city.     Events  Kyoto's greatest Living Treasures are its vivacious festivals ( matsuri). The city hosts some 500 of these colourful events throughout the year, and almost any visit should provide the chance to catch at least one. Some of the more fascinating festivals include Hatsu Ebisu, 8 to 12 January, where a party is held for Ebisu the patron deity of merchants; Godai Rikison Ninno-e, 23 February, at which participants lift two gigantic rice cakes 150kg (330pds) for men, 90kg (200pds) for women; Gion Matsuri, 17 July, perhaps the most renowned of all Japanese festivals, when over 200,000 people throng the Shijo-Karasuma area, and reaches a climax on the 17th when a Yamaboko-junko parade of over 30 floats is held to the accompaniment of flutes, drums and gongs; and Daimon-ji Gozan Okuribi, 16 August, where enormous fires are lit on five mountains in the form of Chinese characters or other shapes.    
north_east_asia_kyoto_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Nara (population 350,000) is known as the birthplace of Japanese culture, and became Japan's first permanent capital in 710. The city acted as the eastern terminus of the legendary Silk Road, the ancient trading route between Asia and Europe, and today is the number two tourist attraction in Kansai after Kyoto. Though at first uninspiring, careful inspection of this ancient city will reveal its hidden beauty and rich history. Nara's best sites include the Nara-koen deer park, with around 1200 deer, the Kofuku-ji Temple, also built in 710 and still largely intact, and Todai-ji Temple, the world's largest wooden building and home to the Great Buddha - one of the largest bronze images in the world.  
north_east_asia_macau_activities.html:  Activities  If walking up and down Macau's hilly cobbled streets isn't enough to get your blood pumping, there are jogging tracks around the Guia Lighthouse, along Avenida da Republica and around the tip of the peninsula. The Guia Lighthouse is also the venue for t'ai chi. There's an 8km (5mi) hiking trail in the hills of Coloane, plus the island has recreation facilities and a couple of decent swimming beaches. The most popular activity is of course gambling, with nine 24-hour casinos and a choice of baccarat, blackjack, keno and one-arm bandits. You can literally go to the dogs by betting on the greyhounds at the Canidrome or on the horses at Taipa's Hippodrome. And if there's any money left over, spend it shopping for treasures in Macau's alleys and markets - there's everything from specialist cigarettes and herbal remedies to pawned Gucci shirts, plus the usual duty-free goods.  
north_east_asia_macau_attractions.html:  Attractions  No single image can encapsulate Macau's mystique, but the ruined facade of St Paul's Cathedral comes pretty close. The Italian-designed hilltop cathedral was built by Japanese Christian exiles in the early 17th century, and even in ruins its grandiose scale is a stunning reminder of Macau's glorious past. The cathedral was all-but destroyed by fire during a disastrous typhoon in 1835, which spared only the screen-like facade, mosaic floor and 66-step approach. The site is all the more impressive when it's floodlit at night, soaring one-dimensionally over the surrounding apartment blocks: squint upwards to spot some local flavour in the carving of a woman stamping on a seven-headed hydra, with Chinese characters reading 'the Holy Mother tramples the heads of the dragon'. There's a museum in the cathedral's former nave, with pride of place going to the highly prized piece of St Francis Xavier's arm bone and the tomb belonging to the cathedral's builder, Jesuit Father Alessandro Valignano.  The hill overlooking the cathedral ruins is topped by Fortaleza de Monte. In its heyday the fort was the central link in the settlement's protective city walls - its cannons scared off the Dutch in 1622 - but these days it's a public park with fabulous panoramic views, a museum and meteorological observatory. Lovers of angel statues (we know you're out there) should head further north to St Michael's Cemetery, and the poignant Old Protestant Cemetery in the west of the peninsula will interest Anglo-history buffs.  
north_east_asia_macau_facts.html:  When to Go  The best time to visit Macau is autumn (October-December), when there's less humidity, more sunshine and December's Winter Solstice to celebrate. Spring (March-May) isn't a bad time to visit either, but the worst time to go would have to be on a cold and drizzly winter's day in January or during a humid 30 C (85 F) downpour in June.  Sub-tropical Macau shimmers in a humid hot haze from June to September, with monsoonal thundery downpours and the chance of being caught in a tropical typhoon. Winters are reasonably chilly and often drizzly affairs, so don't come to Macau dressed in shorts and a t-shirt if you're visiting December-March. Hotel rooms are hardest to find at weekends, on Hong Kong public holidays, Chinese New Year (late January/early February) and during the Macau Grand Prix in November.     Events  Macau has lost some of its Portuguese-flavoured celebrations and gained a few Chinese ones - goodbye Portuguese Revolution Day, hello National China Day. Chinese New Year is a particularly deafening favourite, and February's celebrations continue with the fun-filled Lantern Festival. The Pou Tai Un Temple on Taipa Island is the place to be in February for the Feast of the Earth god Tou Tei. Some Catholic festivals have been retained, including the 400-year-old Procession of Our Lord of Passion, which travels from S o Agostinho to Macau Cathedral in March. Macau's A-Ma Temple comes alive with festive worshippers during the A-Ma Festival (akin to Hong Kong's Tin Hau Festival) - the temple honours the Goddess of Seafarers for whom Macau is named. For dancing dragons and sparkling-clean Buddhas, head to Macau in May for the Feast of the Drunken Dragon and Feast of the Bathing of Lord Buddha; the Taoist deity Tam Kong is also honoured on this day of festivals by Macau's fishing community, particularly in Coloane Village. The Miracle of Fatima is celebrated on 13 May with a procession from S o Domingos to Our Lady of Penha. June's spectacular Dragon Boat Festival is held on Nam Van Lakes to the accompaniment of drums. Hungry Ghosts' Festival, in late August/early September, marks the start of a two-week period. There's an international fireworks festival in September and October, and racing drivers take to the streets in November during the Macau Formula 3 Grand Prix. Festivities come to an end with Winter Solstice feasting in December.   Public Holidays: January 1 - New Year's Day late January/early February - Chinese New Year March/April - Easter Early April - Ching Ming April/May - Buddha's Birthday May 1 - Labour Day June - Dragon Boat Festival October 1 & 2 - China National Day Mid/Late October - Chung Yeung Festival of Ancestors November 2 - All Souls' Day December 8 - Feast of the Immaculate Conception December 20 - Macau Special Administrative Region Establishment Day December 22 - Winter Solstice December 24 & 25 - Christmas Eve and Christmas Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to MacauTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_east_asia_macau_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Once-sleepy Taipa Island has experienced some shockingly brusque changes recently - if you want calm and tranquillity you'll have to head to neighbouring Coloane Island and be quick about it. Plans are in place to connect Taipa with Coloane once and for all, courtesy of the huge Cotai City land-reclamation project. It's envisaged that the self-contained city will sit at the centre of a road, bridge, air and rail network linking Macau with mainland China - the new six-lane Lotus Flower Bridge is just the start of this massive development project. But all is not lost: head to Taipa Village on the southern shore for picture-book charm, unruffled by the overblown development to the north. Grand colonial remains mingle with Portuguese restaurants and Chinese shops, Buddhist temples and tree-lined esplanades (no longer on the seafront thanks to siltation and land reclamation). Grab a snapshot of the past at the Taipa House Museum, an evocative re-creation of an early-20th-century colonial home. East of the village, the steep hills leading down to the sea - well, nowadays the airport - are covered with the Buddhist, Taoist and Confucian graves of the United Chinese Cemetery - so much for fung shui!  
north_east_asia_mongolia_activities.html:  Activities  The Four Holy Peaks surrounding Ulaan Bataar offer challenging hiking and breathtaking views. Manzshir Khiid Route on the Tsetseegum peak's southern side is the easiest route up; Zaisan Route is the most scenic and most difficult. There's more hiking in Gurvansaikhan National Park, around the hills of Khovd, and in the Gobi Desert. Huge Khövsgöl Nuur lake is a nirvana for fishing and kayaking and there's some spelunking to be done in lakeshore caves. January and February are good months for skiing. Downhill and crosscountry ski tours leave from Ulaan Bataar. Relive Genghis Khan's glory days by grabbing a horse, camel or yak for a ride in and around Ulaan Baatar.  
north_east_asia_mongolia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Often called UB by foreigners, Mongolia's sleepy capital has the look and feel of a neglected 1950s European city. The old Soviet cars and buses are slowly being replaced by newer Japanese versions, but cows still wander the roads, goats sift through the rubbish, and traditionally dressed men and women mingle on the city's streets with Mongolia's nouveaux riche.   Built along the Tuul river and surrounded by lovely mountains, Ulaan Baatar is dominated by communist style highrise apartment buildings, but about 250,000 locals also live in the extended ger suburbs on the outskirts of town. The felt gers are protected from the winds, which are especially fierce in spring, by wooden fences. The topography makes for good hillside views overlooking the city, but during winter the view is obscured by pollution and temperatures are painfully freezing.   The centre of the city is Sükhbaatar Square. From this spot in July 1921 Damdiny Sükhbaatar, the 'hero of the revolution', declared Mongolia's independence from the Chinese. The square was also where the first protests were held in 1989 which eventually led to the fall of communism. On normal days, it's a serene place where only pigeons and peddling photographers do much of anything. The grey State Parliament House faces the square, as does the tall, modern Palace of Culture, a useful landmark containing the impressive Mongolian Art Gallery and other odes to Mongolian culture.   One block north-west of the square, the Museum of Natural History is worth a visit if you're heading into the countryside. There are exhibits about Mongolia's geography, flora and fauna and some displays about recent Mongolian history. More impressive are the 2 complete dinosaur skeletons which were found in the Gobi - the giant flesh eating Tarbosaurus and its first cousin, the little duckbilled plant-eating Saurolophus. The Zanabazar Museum of Fine Arts has an excellent collection of paintings, carvings and sculptures, including many by the revered sculptor, artist and Buddhist, Zanabazar. It also contains other rare religious exhibits, such as thangkas (cloth paintings) and Buddhist statues.   Around the start of the 19th century, over 100 Tibetan Buddhist süm (temples) and khiid (monasteries) served a population of about 50,000 in Ulaan Baatar. Most of the temples and monasteries, along with their belongings, were destroyed during the Stalinist purges of the late 1930s. Gandantegchinlen Khiid survived because the communists kept it as a showcase to impress foreigners. Roughly meaning 'the great place of complete joy', Gandan is one of Ulaan Baatar's most amazing sights. Within it are several glorious temples adorned with gold and jewels. The 150 or so monks who live here do their bit to bring the temples back to life with plenty of chanting and ceremonialising.   The Winter Palace of Bogd Khaan was also spared. Built between 1893 and 1903, it's where Mongolia's 8th Bogd Khaan (Living Buddha) and last king, lived for 20 years. Depending on which version of history you read, the Bogd Khaan either enjoyed irreverent pleasures of the flesh and bottle and was blind with syphilis, or he was a great visionary and nationalist. When he died in 1924, the Soviet-led communist government of Mongolia prohibited any future reincarnations, so there were no further Mongolian Buddhist leaders. The 6 temples on the grounds of the Winter Palace contain collections of gifts given the Bogd Khaan, including an extraordinary array of stuffed animals.  
north_east_asia_mongolia_environment.html:  Environment  Mongolia is a huge, landlocked country about three times the size of France, squashed between China and Russia. It was immeasurably bigger during the period of Mongol conquest under Genghis Khan and Kublai Khan. Until the 20th century Mongolia was twice its present size and included a large chunk of Siberia and Inner Mongolia (now controlled by China).   Mongolia is one of the highest countries in the world, with an average elevation of 1580m (5180ft). Its highest mountains are in the far west. The Mongol Altai Nuruu are permanently snowcapped, and their highest peak, Tavanbogd Uul (4370m/14,350ft), has a magnificent glacier that towers over Mongolia, Russia and China. Between the peaks are stark deserts where rain almost never falls. Elsewhere, Mongolia has numerous saltwater and freshwater lakes, the largest of which is the Khövsgöl Nuur, which contains two per cent of the world's fresh water.   The southern third of Mongolia is dominated by the Gobi Desert. Although barren looking, it has enough grass to support scattered herds of sheep, goats and camels. Much of the rest of Mongolia is grassland, home to Mongolia's famed takhi horses, which Genghis Khan used so successfully in his wars of conquest.   Although it boasts over 260 sunny days a year and is known as the 'Land of Blue Sky', Mongolia's climate is extreme. Long subarctic winters are the norm and you can see snow in the Gobi Desert as late as April; some lakes remain frozen until June. There's a short rainy season from mid-July to September, but showers tend to be brief and gentle. Because of the high altitude, evenings are cool even in summer. In Ulaan Baatar, the winter (October to April) is long and cold, with temperatures dropping to -30 C (-22 F) in January and February. Horrific dust storms kick up during the short spring (May to June).  
north_east_asia_mongolia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Entry and exit visas are required of all nationalities. They may be obtained at the airport at a cost of around US$50 and must be accompanied by an invitation or sponsorship from a Mongolian company, a resident foreigner, or an organised tour company. Some consulates and embassies interpret the regulations more liberally than others. Visitors must be registered at the police department 10 days after arrival and checked out of the registry upon departure.Health risks: Brucellosis, cholera, meningococcal meningitis, bubonic plagueTime: UTC/GMT plus 8 hours; UTC/GMT plus 7 hours in the western provinces of Bayan-Ölgii, Uvs and KhovdElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The travel season is typically from May to early October, though Ulaan Baatar can be visited any time of year if you can tolerate the bitter cold. Early July has the best weather for the northern part of the country and is also the time to celebrate Mongolia's Naadam Festival. Be aware, though, that this is also when Ulaan Baatar's inadequate accommodation and creaky transport is stretched to the breaking point. June and September are both pleasant times to visit, and attract fewer visitors. The best months to visit the Gobi Desert and not get toasted are September and October. Be aware that between mid-October and mid-May sudden snowstorms and extreme cold can ground flights, block roads and cause the country's transport system to stall.     Events   The biggest event of the year is the Naadam Festival, known as the eriyn gurvan naadam, after the three 'manly sports' of wrestling, archery and horse racing. The festival is held all over the country, normally between 11 and 13 July, the anniversary of the 1921 Mongolian Revolution. The major events take place during the first two days. Tsagaan Sar (White Month) is the start of the lunar new year in January or February. After months of enduring a bitter winter, Mongolians celebrate over three days with a lot of food, liquor and singing.    
north_east_asia_mongolia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  After Erdene Zuu Khiid in Kharkhorin, Amarbayasgalant Khiid is considered the most important monastery in Mongolia. It's also one of the most beautiful. Situated in northern central Mongolia, Amarbayasgalant Khiid was originally built in 1737 by the Manchurian king Kansu, who dedicated it to the great Mongolian Buddhist and sculptor, Zanabazar. The communists found their way here in the 1930s and destroyed 10 of the 37 temples and statues. These days the temples are normally closed but you can ask the head monk to open them and you're welcome to watch the 30 resident monks conduct their daily ceremonies.   A daily bus and frequent express trains link Ulaan Baatar and Darkhan, which is 219km (136mi) north-west of the capital. The monastery is 140km (87mi) south-east of Darkhan; you'll need a jeep to reach the monastery from Darkhan.  
north_east_asia_north_korea_activities.html:  Activities  You can take special interest tours to North Korea, and they include mountaineering (Paekdu, Myohyang and Kumgang mountains; Taekwondo traditional martial arts; mud (spa) treatment; Korean language study; educational establishments; dance notation; golf; and hunting and biological or geological survey trips to Paekdusan. You could also do the 'Tour for Traditional Korean Medical Treatment', which involves undergoing courses of acupuncture, moxibustion, suction using vacuum flasks, manipulative treatment and physical therapy. If you're not interested in taking any special interest tours, there are possibilities for hiking with your government-appointed guide.  
north_east_asia_north_korea_attractions.html:  Attractions  P'yongyang is a superb example of the regime's determination to project its image of progress, discipline and the well being of its citizens. Don't expect a bustling Asian capital alive with street hawkers and televisions being carried on the backs of bicycles. Don't even expect bicycles. It is said that only those with the proper 'class background' and proven records of unswerving loyalty to the country's leaders are even allowed to live there, and until recently people with disabilities, the very old, animals, street vendors and even pregnant women were just never seen.  The city is built around the banks of the Taedong River. The most amazing thing about the river is the two mid-river fountains that rise to a height of 150m, reputedly the highest in the world. Your first day out in the city will undoubtedly be a guided tour by car. One of the main monuments is the Tower of the Juche Idea, a 170m (557ft) high needle on the east bank of the Taedong. You will also surely be taken to see the Arch of Triumph, which marks the spot where Kim Il-sung made his rallying speech after the Japanese were routed. You'll be reminded that it is fully three metres taller than its counterpart in Paris.  The Kim Il-sung Stadium is one of the world's largest, and the Chollima Statue, a bronze Pegasus representing the high-speed progress of the North's reconstruction, are both worth a look. There is a generous handful of museums and monuments to Kim Il-sung and the Revolution, but you may wish to see more traditional sights, such as two of the old city gates, the Chilsong and Taedong Gates. The State Circus, run by the People's Army, is housed in a large circular building, and upon entering you'll probably be treated to the spectacle of the whole audience turning their heads as one to stare at the foreigners. You should also definitely visit a metro station if you get the opportunity, if only to gawk at the extravagance with which they were built. They are adorned with bronze sculptures, murals, mosaics and chandeliers, and the pillars, steps, corridors and platforms are marble.  Accommodation is expensive, although the price of wherever you choose to stay is included in your tour charge. You'll most likely be pressured to stay at the deluxe P'yongyang Koryo Hotel, a 45-storey tower with a revolving restaurant on top. It has 500 rooms, and given the small number of tourists, you should have little trouble making reservations. There are other deluxe hotels, but most are not as conveniently located - the Koryo is a five minute walk from the railway station. The most popular C class hotel is the Changgwangsan Hotel, less than 2km (about 1mi) from the station. You'll most likely eat at your hotel, but you can arrange with your guide to eat elsewhere.  
north_east_asia_north_korea_environment.html:  Environment  North Korea shares its southern border, obviously, with South Korea, and nuzzles up against China in the north and Russia in the far northeast. The country is slightly smaller in area than England, and just a few thousand square kilometres larger than its southern cousin. It faces Japan to the south and looks east across the Sea of Japan (known as the East Sea in Korea). North Korea is estimated to be 80 per cent uninhabitable mountains, compared to a mere 70 per cent uninhabitable land in the south.  When the Japanese were running the place they were no keen environmentalists, and used the whole peninsula as their own private timber mill and mine, especially once WWII kicked on. But much of North Korea's sheer inaccessibility saved it, and the northern and eastern regions of the country are mostly rugged mountains with dense forests, not well suited to agriculture or easy to exploitation. The Korean War and allied bombing in the 1950s took a huge toll, but much of the country is still shrouded in dense forests, with vast mineral wealth lying untapped below the surface. Estuaries and marshes teem with migratory birds and other wildlife, and if you manage to get out in the back blocks you may manage to see black bear or deer.  The weather is similar to South Korea's, only colder and drier in winter. Most of the rain falls from July to September, but autumn is drier with crisp, bright days and cool nights. The winters are long, frigid and noticeably lacking in ski resorts, making travel questionable at best. Summers are generally hot and sticky with lots of rain.  
north_east_asia_north_korea_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: This is the difficult part. If you're from the US or South Korea you can pretty much forget about it. Other nationals may have some luck approaching the tourism office in the North Korean Embassy in Beijing; your chances of being granted a visa are far lower at other embassies. A visa, if it is going to be granted, can normally be granted quickly.Health risks: No particular risks, although there is a shortage of western medicines so it's not a great place to get sick. Traditional Korean medicine is available and is similar to the Chinese variety.Time:GMT/UTC plus nine hoursElectricity: 110/220V, 60 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best months to visit North Korea are May, June, September and October. In May and June, the worst of winter will be gone and the days will be warming up, in September and October you'll get a brilliant display of autumn colours.     Events  North Korea does not celebrate Christmas or the Lunar New Year, nor many of South Korea's major holidays. May Day and Liberation Day are the big holidays, and the parades are huge extravaganzas featuring mass gymnastics, which rank among the country's most memorable sights. By all means try and be in P'yongyang for those events.    
north_east_asia_north_korea_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Paekdusan straddles the Korean-Chinese border in the far north. At 2744m (1070ft) this extinct volcano is the highest peak on the Korean Peninsula. It is surrounded by a vast wilderness, and the main peak is covered year-round by whitish pumice and snow; the name means 'White Head Mountain'. A huge crater lake called Chonji ('Lake of Heaven') lies at the summit, surrounded by bare rocky crags. It is one of the deepest alpine lakes in the world, and although it's fed by two hot springs, it is also one of the coldest.  Paekdusan is sacred to all Koreans, because according to Korean mythology it is where the 'Son of the Lord of Heaven' descended to earth and the first Korean kingdom began. North Korea's current history books also claim that the Dear Leader established his headquarters here in the 1920s and defeated the Japanese from there. Although no history books outside of North Korea claim the region was a battlefield during WWII, plenty of revolutionary and anti-imperialist slogans have been carved on the trees. Many more of these 'slogan-bearing trees' are being discovered every year, and most are so well preserved that you'd think they were carved yesterday, if you didn't know any better. Paekdusan is 350km (217mi) north-east of P'yongyang.  
north_east_asia_seoul_activities.html:  Activities   Walking tours should be high on most people's lists, just to get a feel for the town and see some of the sights. Cycling is another great way to combine exercise and sightseeing. There are two golf courses within city limits, and another 46 in the surrounding province, but prices won't seem particularly reasonable to many Western visitors. Health clubs often offer day membership. Traditional Korean-style archery and the Western form are practised in Seoul, with archery ranges usually found out of town.  The cold winters and mountainous terrain around Seoul lend themselves perfectly to skiing, and Lotte World shopping centre has year-round, indoor ice skating, although you should try and avoid it on weekends. While Seoul lacks a sizeable ocean or a lake, water sports such as windsurfing and water skiing are possible in summer on the Han River; paragliding is also available.  
north_east_asia_seoul_attractions.html:  Attractions  The central and northern neighbourhoods are probably the most interesting areas of Seoul; their olde-worlde atmosphere is in stark contrast to the surrounding modern city. The whole area was once reserved for the nobility, and is home to most of Seoul's royal palaces, as well as numerous tiny alleyways with traditional tile-roofed homes. Some of the traditional homes have beautiful stained-wood doors graced with ornate brass doorknocks. You can walk around the quaint residential area and the Gyeongbokgung Palace in about an hour, starting at Gyeongbokgung Station.  Also in this area are several teashops and galleries, such as the Yoon, Hyundai, Kumho, Kukje and the wistfully named Growrich. They all feature the work of local contemporary artists, and it's worth your while to have a little explore. You can check out the National Folk Museum while you're here too.  
north_east_asia_seoul_facts.html:  When to Go  Seoul is beautiful at all times of the year - your visit depends on your tastes. Autumn (September-November) is the most popular time, with fine weather and amazingly colourful forests. Winter - if you can stand the cold - is also magnificent. The ice and snow show off Seoul in a flattering way. During spring (March to May) Seoul has mild temperatures and flowers, including the magnificent cherry blossom, bloom everywhere. Summer is probably the least attractive time to visit - it's warm, humid and very wet.  The worst times to be in Seoul as a traveller are during holiday periods, in particular July and August. Accommodation is expensive, transport is crowded and people are everywhere. Especially avoid Lunar New Year (first day of the first moon).     Events  During the Lunar New Year ( Seollal), in January or February, you can expect not only Seoul but the whole country to grind to a halt. It's probably a good opportunity to head off to the Korean Folk Village (near Suwon) or the Seoul Nori Madang to view the special performances of traditional dances or wedding services. The Buddha's Birthday and associated lantern festival, is on the eighth day of the fourth moon, and falls around April or May in the Western calendar. The Sunday before the Buddha's birthday sees a huge evening lantern parade that winds up at Chogyesa Temple, starting around 6.30pm.   Chuseok, Korean Thanksgiving, is also known as the Harvest Moon Festival, and falls on the 15th day of the eighth month, around September or October. It is the most important of South Korea's lunar holidays, and Seoul becomes almost deserted as most city dwellers head back to their family homes. They prepare offerings for the ancestral tombs and prepare for an evening of gazing at the moon.  Two other festivals worth looking for are the Seokchonje, staged twice a year in the Confucius Shrine at Sungkyunkwan University in northern Seoul. A traditional court orchestra performs and full costume rituals are enacted. Similarly, full costume parades are held at the Jyongmyo Daeje, the Royal Shrine Rites in the Jangmyo Shrine on the first Sunday in May.    
north_east_asia_seoul_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track   Panmunjeom was just a small farming community before it became the focus of continuing peace negotiations between North and South. Technically, the Korean War never ended, making the ceasefire since 1953's Armistice Treaty (which Seoul never signed) the longest in history. The so-called 'demilitarised zone', or DMZ, is hardly demilitarised today, with two armies bristling with weapons glaring at each other across a stretch of mined, electrified and barbed-wired no-man's land.  The attractions don't amount to much, and include a conference room with the demarcation line running down the centre of the table, the Freedom Bridge and the Bridge of No Return (depending on which way you're going and where your politics lie), as well as a few touristy sights like Freedom House. Perhaps the point of making the trip is not so much to see these places as to breathe in the almost palpable tension of a front line in a continuing cold war.  You can only reach Panmunjeom by joining a tour group. Your Korean guide will take you to Camp Bonifas, where you can play slot machines, presumably to boost the army's coffers. An American soldier briefs the tourists, puts on a short slide show and accompanies the group to the Joint Security Area of Panmunjeom, as Korean nationals are forbidden entry. The tours are popular, so you'll probably have to book ahead in Seoul.  
north_east_asia_shanghai_activities.html:  Activities  There is no shortage of heartrate-raising, sweat-inducing activities in and around Shanghai. Western-style health clubs are becoming more common, otherwise try a hotel gym. The French Concession offers some charming areas for cycling, and the ambitious can head out of the city to Sheshan or even Suzhou. For swimming, the Shanghai Swimming Pool opens to the public on weekends only, there are hotel pools, or try the Ocean World water park. Shanghai Stadium has public badminton courts, and there are public tennis courts near the stadium or you can play at the Xianxia Tennis Centre. There are more than 200 tenpin bowling alleys in Shanghai to try. The north entrance of Shanghai Stadium has skate/skateboard ramps. Golf courses have invaded the suburbs of Shanghai; as elsewhere, it's a sport of the well-to-do. Check the expat rags for information on a host of other sports, including martial arts. A massage, while not strictly active, is a great antidote to too much exercise. Get a local to direct you to a legitimate, small specialist massage clinic.  
north_east_asia_shanghai_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Bund is an Anglo-Indian term for the embankment of a muddy waterfront. The term is apt: mud bedevils the city. Its muddy predicament aside, the Bund is symbolic. To the Europeans, it was Shanghai's Wall Street, a place of feverish trading and an unabashed playground for Western business sophisticates. It remains the city's most eloquent reminder that Shanghai is a very foreign invention.  Still a grand strip of hotels, shopping streets and nightclubs, the Bund remains an intrinsic part of Shanghai's character. Constant throngs of Chinese and foreign tourists pad past the porticos of the Bund's grand edifices while the buildings themselves loom serenely; a vagabond assortment of neoclassical 1930s downtown New York styles, with a touch of monumental antiquity thrown in for good measure. The building identified by a crowning dome is the old Hongkong and Shanghai Bank, completed in 1921 with much pomp and ceremony. For many years it has housed the Shanghai People's Municipal Government. The Hongkong and Shanghai Bank has long been negotiating to get it back. Other Bund fixtures are being sold off, and will no doubt be dusted off and cleaned up.  
north_east_asia_shanghai_facts.html:  When to Go  The best times to visit Shanghai are spring (April to mid-May) and autumn (late September to mid-November). In winter, temperatures can drop well below freezing, with a blanket of drizzle, although at least there are few tourists and hotels are heavily discounted. Summer is the peak travel season, though this is the worst time to visit as it's hot and humid with temperatures as high as 40 C (104 F). In short, you'll need silk long johns and down jackets for winter, an ice block for each armpit for summer and an umbrella wouldn't go astray in any season. Avoid major trade fairs and Chinese New Year, when the city grinds to a halt and local transport gets swamped with domestic travellers.     Events  The biggest event in Shanghai's calendar is the Spring Festival, when many people take a week off and the city grinds to a halt. The Longhua Temple has large celebrations, with dragon and lion dances. The Lantern Festvial (February) is a colourful time to visit, especially in the Yuyuan Gardens, with people carrying coloured paper lanterns. A Temple Fair is held at the Longhua Temple on the third day of the third lunar month (around April). It's eastern China's largest and oldest folk gathering. The Shanghai International Tea Culture Festival is usually at the end of April. Tomb Sweeping Day, also in April, is a day for worshipping ancestors; people visit the graves of their dearly departed relatives and often burn 'ghost money' (for use in the afterworld) for the departed.  The Dragon Boat Festival on the fifth day of the fifth lunar month (June) commemorates the death of Qu Yuan, a third-century BC poet-statesman who drowned himself to protest against the corrupt government. The Shanghai Beer Festival staggers into town around the end of July. The Mid-Autumn Festival is also known as the Moon Festival and is the time to eat tasty moon cakes. It takes place in September, on the 15th day of the 8th moon. The Shanghai Tourism Festival kicks off in late September and offers a wide variety of cultural programs. In November and early December there's an annual International Arts Festival.   Public holidays 1 January - New Year's Day February - Spring Festival (Chinese New Year) 8 March - International Working Women's Day 1 May - International Labour Day 4 May - Youth Day 1 June - Children's Day 1 July - Anniversary of the Founding of the Chinese Communist Party 1 August - Anniversary of the Founding of the PLA 1 October - National Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to ShanghaiTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_east_asia_shanghai_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  There are three main perspectives on Shanghai - from the gutters, from the heights (ie from the battlements of the tourist fortresses) and from the waters. The Huangpu River offers some remarkable views of the Bund and the riverfront activity at night as well as during the day. Tour boats leave for 1, 2 and 3.5-hour tours from the dock on the Bund.  
north_east_asia_south_korea_activities.html:  Activities  South Korea is very much a get-out-in-the-open-air-and-exert-yourself destination. The mountains, national parks and rugged islands all lend themselves to hiking and mountain biking, although wherever you go there will be plenty of other people with the same idea. There are also a few good mountains for skiing - try Yongpyong on the east coast or the Alps Ski Resort near Seoraksan National Park. The season is from December to March. If golf is your game, South Korea has what you're after. There are over 60 courses throughout the country, but keep in mind that some of them have been created at the expense of beautiful natural landscapes. Indoor activities are also popular in South Korea - try your hand at billiards, hot spring soaking or taekwondo, the national martial art.  During Seokcheonje (held in March and September), crowds gather at Confucian shrines to hear traditional court orchestras and watch costumed rituals. The best place to see this ceremony is at Sungkyunkwan University in Seoul. Lantern parades are held for Buddha's Birthday, celebrated in late April or early May. The most important of Korea's lunar holidays is the Harvest Moon Festival, which falls in early September. Cities throughout the country empty as people return to their family homes to pay homage to their ancestors. Around September the National Folk Arts Festival showcases Korean culture.  
north_east_asia_south_korea_attractions.html:  Attractions  Seoul is mega-modern and appealingly ancient. Flattened in the Korean War, most of the city has been rebuilt since the 1950s. Peeking out from among the 12-lane freeways, overshadowed by high-rises, Seoul has a hidden history of centuries-old temples, palaces, pagodas and pleasure gardens. It also has cheap accommodation, excellent public transport and cultural experiences aplenty, and that's why most visitors to South Korea never get past its city limits. The Han River bisects the city, with Jung-gu the central district, Jongno-gu (with most of the budget hotels and sights) to the north, and Itaewon (packed full of shops, bars and nightlife) just south of the city centre.  Seoul is justifiably famous for its palaces. Gyeongbokgung Palace is the best known. Built at the beginning of the Joseon dynasty, most of the 500 buildings in the palace grounds were destroyed when the Japanese invaded. Reconstructed in the late 19th century, destroyed again in the Korean War, the palace and its grounds have now been entirely restored once more. The palace is actually several buildings, including one of the most exquisite pagodas in the country and an enormous two-storey throne room. The National Folk Museum in the grounds of the palace is dedicated to showing how ordinary Koreans have lived through the ages. Another palace highlight is Changgyeonggung Palace, built in 1104. Once the rulers' summer palace, the Japanese downgraded Changgyeonggung to a park, but there are still plenty of Goryeo dynasty drawcards, including astronomical instruments, a botanical garden and stone bridges. Cross a footbridge from the palace and you're at the Jongmyo Shrine, where the ancestral tablets of all 27 Joseon dynasty kings are enshrined.  If a bit of a chat with the locals is what you're after, head southwest of Changgyeonggung to Tapgol Park, where crowds of friendly elderly folk sit around talking about the weather. This is where the Declaration of Independence was first read in 1919, and murals around the park are dedicated to the independence movement. The park is named after the marble pagoda ( tapgol) in its grounds. The city's other great park is Namsan, south of the city centre. The third tallest tower in the world, the Seoul Tower is within the park, and it's packed full of tourist fun - aquarium, games room and all-important observation deck. For a more sobering tourist experience, try the War Memorial northwest of the Yongsan military base, touted as one of the best museums in Seoul.  National Treasure No 1 is the Namdaemun Gate, once Seoul's chief city gate. The gate, built in the 14th century, is near Seoul train station. Its solidity and calm elegance make it an island in a sea of traffic. In complete contrast, Lotte World is mall culture gone mad. South of the river, this entertainment complex has its own ice skating rink, hotel, swimming pool and Disney-clone Lotte World Adventure - hours of family fun. The city centre is your best bet for budget accommodation, while Jung-gu has most of the mid-range places. Touristy Itaewon is where the moneyed traveller will find digs to suit. You can grab a cheap Korean feed from the basements of department stores in the city centre, but if you can't deal with gimchi for breakfast, 7-Elevens all over the city will sell you coffee and doughnuts. Those longing to dance the night away should head to Itaewon or Gangnam. If a quiet drink is more your style, Seoul's best pubs cluster around Sinchon subway station.  
north_east_asia_south_korea_environment.html:  Environment  South Korea has its northern border with (unsurprisingly) North Korea. It faces China to the west across the West Sea/Yellow Sea, and Japan to the east across the East Sea/Sea of Japan. The line dividing the south from the north runs roughly along the 38th parallel. South Korea is a little bit bigger than Portugal, and most of the country, particularly the east coast, is covered in mountains - the highest is Hallasan at 1950m (6396ft).  Korea's history has been plagued by wars, all of which have taken their toll on the environment. When under the control of the Japanese, it was thoroughly logged and mined to support their war effort. However, South Korea is now reforesting with a vengeance. In the north of the country the environment is alpine, with plenty of beech, fir and pine trees. This is the only part of the country where native animals are hanging on: you might see black bear and deer. Along the south coast, things get a bit more tropical and the vegetation is lush. This is where Korea grows its ginseng supplies. The country is dotted with 20 national parks, including the very popular Soraksan, Hallasan and Chirisan parks.  
north_east_asia_south_korea_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: With an onward ticket visitors from almost anywhere - except countries not recognised by South Korea (Cuba, Laos & Cambodia) - can stay in the country for 30 days without a visa. If you're from Western Europe or Canada, you can get up to 90 days visa-free. Everyone else has to extend after their first 30 days. Extensions last for around 90 days, and if you know you're going to need one it's worth getting it before you leave home.Health risks: No particular risks, but you should consider vaccinations for hepatitis, typhoid, polio, tetanus & diphtheriaTime:GMT/UTC plus nine hoursCountry code: 82International dialling code: 001Electricity: 110/220V, 60 HzWeights & measures: MetricUseful Contacts:Ambulance: 119Fire: 119Police: 112English Operator: 080-211 0114Korea National Tourism Organisation (KNTO): www.visitkorea.or.kr When to Go  Korea has four distinct seasons, with a wet monsoon/summer in the middle of the year, and a very cold winter from November to March. Jeju-do off the south coast is the warmest and wettest place in the country.  If you possibly can, time your visit to South Korea for autumn (September to November). It's sunny, the skies are blue, and Korea's spectacular autumn foliage is a real draw. Winter is cold but dry, and a good time to visit if you like skiing, snow-draped temples, a dearth of tourists and crisp (ie below freezing) weather. Spring (April to May) can be beautiful, but it's also the most popular time with Japanese tourists and you'll have trouble getting mid to top-end accommodation. Summer is hot, muggy, crowded, wet, typhoon-prone and expensive.     Events  The first day of the first moon is Seollal (lunar new year; January/February), when South Korea grinds to a halt. The Cherry Blossom Festival in Jinhae in the province of Gyeongsangnam-do usually falls in early April (if the weather and trees cooperate). Lantern parades are held for Buddha's Birthday, celebrated in late April or early May. In Seoul, there is an evening parade from Yeo-eui-do Plaza to Jogyesa on the Sunday prior to the actual holiday. June sees processions of shamans and mask dances at the Dano Festival, and in September the National Folk Arts Festival showcases Korean culture. South Korea's biggest holiday is Chuseok ('Korean Thanksgiving'). At this time (September/October), cities throughout the country empty as people return to their family homes to pay homage to their ancestors.    
north_east_asia_south_korea_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Samcheok itself, on the northeast coast, hasn't much to recommend it, but the beaches to its south are little gems set between steep cliffs and rocks. Geundeok Beach is off the main road and consequently a bit more isolated than the other beaches - the scenery here is terrific. Yonghwa Beach has a freshwater stream, lots of minbak (rooms in private houses) to stay in, and plenty of seafood to eat. Imwon Beach is only 200m (218 yards) long, but is dramatically set in a cliff-lined cove, with sea caves to investigate. Other, more developed, beach resorts also line this part of the coast. The easiest way to get to all of these beaches is to drive yourself, but irregular local buses also cruise the coast road.  
north_east_asia_taipei_activities.html:  Activities  Aside from shopping, the best bet for those wanting to stay active in Taipei is hiking in one of the many parks and reserves surrounding the city centre. For something indoors, tenpin bowling has taken off in a big way with numerous 24-hour alleys open. If you're a westerner with big clodhoppers, it might pay to bring your own shoes.  
north_east_asia_taipei_attractions.html:  Attractions  Holding the world's largest collection of Chinese artefacts (much to the chagrin of the mainland government), the museum is recognised worldwide as the centre of Chinese culture and tradition. The building contains around 720,000 items, but can only display 15,000 at a time in a three-month rotation. It would take 12 years to see the entire collection.  Perhaps the most extraordinary aspect of the collection is the distance it has covered to get to its current location. From 960 the growing collection spent 500 years moving between Beijing and Nanjing until being housed for another 500 years in Beijing's Forbidden City. In 1931 the collection was sent to Nanjing, then Shanghai, in order to avoid falling into invading Japanese hands. Avoiding the Japanese invasion of Shanghai by only a few weeks, the collection moved back to Nanjing. By 1939 it was hidden in the remote southern village of Emei. Ten thousand crates were also kept in a boat moored on the Yangzi River until the war ended and the collection was reunited. Back again and on display in Nanjing, it was all packed up once more in 1949 and shipped off to Taipei to evade the Communists. This final move was so hasty that about 700 crates were left behind, but the massive collection still remains a testament to Chinese tradition, culture, ingenuity and packing methods.  
north_east_asia_taipei_facts.html:  When to Go  Taipei is good all year round, though the humidity could really get to you if you're staying for an extended period of time. The best time to combine relatively warm temperatures and little rain is in October and November, though typhoons are still a possibility in October.     Events  The Taiwanese celebrate often through the year, with many solar and lunar festivals keeping fireworks companies in business. The most interesting and low-key of 'festivals' is Ghost Month, which is in the seventh lunar month. The devout believe that ghosts from hell walk the earth at this time, so many avoid travelling, getting married, swimming or even moving house. Consequently, it's a pretty good time for foreigners to move about and avoid the crowds. Chinese New Year is at the start of the lunar year, and celebrations last for several days. Book ahead for travel and accommodation, and expect to pay triple-price for a hotel room.   National Day falls on 10 October, so is often called 'Double 10th Day'. Big military parades are held near the Presidential Building and at night the Tamsui River is alight with fireworks. Other days to look out for include the Dragon Boat Festival in June, Constitution Day on 25 December and Founding Day on 1 January.    
north_east_asia_taipei_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Yangmingshan mountain range at the northern end of Taipei provides a scenic alternative to the bustle of the city centre. Springtime sees blossoming cherry trees and azaleas. The lower slopes are home to wealthy Taiwanese and westerners who prefer the cooler, clean air. These areas are also home to ultra-expensive US-style housing projects, but most of the mountain is protected from such development and still remains a great place for hiking day-trips. There is a restaurant in the park that is practically impossible to get a booking at and a few thermal areas, including a hot-springs resort. Camping is possible in the area - as is hotel accommodation - but most just go for a couple of lungs full of fresh air.  
north_east_asia_taiwan_activities.html:  Activities  Most of Taiwan is mountainous, and hiking here can be superb. Yushan and Hsuehshan provide a challenge for the keen mountaineer, while the less athletic should have a go at Alishan and Tungpu. The weather in Taiwan's mountains can be extremely changeable, so be prepared for cold, wet conditions, and in the rainy season watch out for landslides. Surfing spots are of variable quality, but the east coast, extreme north and extreme southern tips are definitely worth a try.  With so many mountains and so little snow, the inventive Taiwanese were bound to come up with grass skiing sooner or later. Several grass skiing resorts have sprung up around the island, and many also offer grass tobogganing and grass sledding. There are some good whitewater rafting runs on the Hsiukuluan River and the Laonung River.  
north_east_asia_taiwan_attractions.html:  Attractions  Taipei is a boisterous and expensive city, and it lets you know it. About 6 million people live in and around Taiwan's capital, lured by the excitement of a bustling city on the move. And for the most part, they're not disappointed. Real estate is virtually unobtainable - Taipei residents have long dispensed with the dream of home-ownership - and the government is encouraging businesses to set up elsewhere in Taiwan. Despite this, the notion still prevails that to make it big in Taiwan, you have to set up in the heart of the capital - even if the air is perpetually toxic. Taiwan's capital is packed full of people, cars and smog - a real hotbed of renao, or liveliness. It's not a relaxing stopover, but the food is excellent, the people are friendly and there are some top-notch sights.  At first glance, Taipei is an intimidating confusion of sprawls, but given time and patience the logic at the heart of the city's layout will slowly begin to dawn. Even so, unless you read Chinese characters, the system of romanised Chinese characters used in Taiwan (called the Wade-Giles system) will leave even those with impeccable senses of direction floundering. There are frequent calls for the replacement of this perverse, unintelligable system with the reasonably successful 'Pinyin' system used in China. But this plan has met with staunch opposition: if it works on mainland China, the thinking goes, it must be bad.  
north_east_asia_taiwan_environment.html:  Environment  The island of Taiwan is adrift 160km (99mi) off the coast of mainland China. The island's total area is 35,563 sq km (13,869 sq mi) - it's 394km (244mi) long and 144km (89mi) wide. Taiwan's spine is a ridge of steep mountains, falling away to a rocky coastline on the east and a narrow, fertile plain (where 90 per cent of the population lives) on the west. Mount Yushan is, at 3952m (12,963ft), the highest peak in North-East Asia outside of Tibet. The small islands of Penghu, Lanyu, Green, Liuchiu, Kinmen, Matsu and Wuchiu are controlled by Taiwan.  The island's high mountain forests are predominantly cyprus, although camphor used to grow in abundance. Taiwan was once home to many endemic species, including the Formosan black bear, the Formosan Sika deer and the Formosan landlocked salmon. In its headlong scurry towards economic prosperity, Taiwan has managed to destroy most of the western coast's habitat and wipe out a species or two, although the inaccessibility of the rest of the island has made it a natural wildlife reserve. But in the last 20 years Taiwan has declared 67 reserves, including six national parks, and instituted some fairly hefty environmental legislation.  Although Taiwan is subtropical, the mountains can be chilly in summer (June to August) and snowy in winter (December to February). During winter it rains pretty much non-stop in the north-east, while the south-west is much warmer and drier. Summer is hot and sticky all over the low parts of the island, with drenching rains in the mountains. Daytime temperatures in Taipei are around 30 C (86 F) in summer and 20 C (68 F) in winter.  
north_east_asia_taiwan_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Some visitors from Western Europe, Australasia and the USA can stay in Taiwan for 14 days without a visa. Everyone else needs a visa, which allows a 30-day stay. Single entry visas are easy to get, but if you want a muliple entry visa get it before you leave home. Because the Republic of China (Taiwan) is not recognised by most countries, you'll have to get your visa from a Taiwanese 'pseudo embassy' - look for trade offices, travel services or friendship associations.Health risks: No particular risks, but you should consider vaccinations for hepatitis.Time:GMT/UTC plus eight hoursElectricity: 110V, 60 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Try to avoid major public holidays, especially Chinese New Year (usually early February), when transport will be full, shops and restaurants closed, and hotels unusually expensive. Summer weather can shorten tempers and increase the price of airfares. While October is climatically pleasant, it is also holiday-ridden - try November instead. In late August/early September it's Ghost Month, which means there will be no Chinese travellers on the road and temples will be at their most active.     Events  You'll need to get hold of a lunar calendar if you want to have any hope of attending Taiwan's big events - very few of them occur on the same date every year. If fireworks and crowds crank your engine, visit Yenshui, Luerhmen or Peikang for the Lantern Festival, on the 15th day of the first moon. Kuanyin's Birthday, on the 19th day of the second moon, is a good time to see temple festivities in full swing. During the Ghost Month, the seventh lunar month, ghosts from hell walk the earth. No one travels, swims, gets married or moves house, but everyone visits Taoist temples. National Day (10 October) is celebrated with gusto, fireworks and a light show in Taipei. Chinese New Year (first day of the first lunar month) should probably be avoided.    
north_east_asia_taiwan_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  About 62km (38mi) off the south-east coast of Taiwan, Lanyu is a rocky, volcanic island with a tropical climate. Lanyu is very different from the rest of Taiwan: most of the inhabitants are Yami aborigines, culturally closer to the Philippines than to China. Traditionally, the Yami speak their own dialect (which is nothing like Chinese), build houses underground to avoid typhoons, and live by cultivating taro and sweet potato and catching fish. Of course, Lanyu is not untouched by the modern world, and you'll see Levis about as often as loincloths. There are a few small Chinese business on the island, and fairly easy access to taxis, TV, beer and cigarettes, so don't expect an unspoilt tribal paradise.  Unspoilt or not, Lanyu is a beautiful place. The coastal scenery - jagged, black volcanic rock - can be breathtaking, if not exactly conducive to swimming. One of the best ways to occupy yourself on Lanyu is to walk the island's circumference, 37km (23mi) all up. There are a few places to stay and eat, and you can camp out if you ask nicely. Small prop-planes fly between Lanyu and Taitung or Kaohsiung, or you can take the not-too-pleasant boat trip from Taitung via Green Island.  
north_east_asia_tibet_attractions.html:  Attractions   Lhasa, the heart and soul of Tibet and an object of devout pilgrimage, is still a city of wonders. The Potala, a vast white and ochre fortress, dominates the Lhasa skyline. Once the seat of Tibetan government and the location of the tombs of previous Dalai Lamas, the Potala serves as a symbolic focus for Tibetan aspirations of self-government. The Jokhang temple, 2km (1.2mi) to the east, is the spiritual heart of the city. The medieval push and shove of crowds, the street performers, the stalls hawking everything from prayer flags to jewel-encrusted yak skulls, and the devout tapping their foreheads to the ground at every step is an exotic brew that few newcomers can resist.  Among Tibet's other attractions are Shigatse, around 250km south-west of Lhasa and the seat of the Panchen Lama (the reincarnation of whom the Dalai Lama and the Chinese government are currently disputing), and Mt Kailash, set in a beautiful range of peaks.  
north_east_asia_tibet_facts.html:  When to Go  Athough the Tibetan climate is not as harsh as many people imagine, be prepared for sudden drops of temperature at night, particularly in Western Tibet. The best time of year to be in Tibet is between May and early November, after which temperatures start to plummet. However, in May and June there is a wind factor to consider, and dust storms are not unusual. These are not pleasant if you're hitching or trekking but usually come in squalls and can be seen coming. Lhasa and Shigatse experience very mild weather between May and November although July and August can be rainy. These two months usually see around half of Tibet's annual rainfall.     Events  In Tibet, there are many festivals throughout the year that attract the faithful as well as curious onlookers. Dancing monks can be seen in the Year End Festival (February-March) held to dispel the evil of the old year and auspiciously usher in the new one; Losar (New Year Festival) is a colorful week of activities (February-March), including Tibetan drama, pilgrims making incense offerings and Tibetans dressed in their finest crowding the streets; cham dancing and chang drinking are the order of the day at the Tsurphu Festival (May-June) - the highlight is the dance of the Karmapa.  The Gyantse Horse Racing Festival is a traditional event that takes place in June and features dances, picnics, archery and equestrian events; the Chökor Duchen Festival, held in Lhasa around August-September, celebrates Buddha's first sermon at Sarnath near Varanasi; the Bathing Festival (September-October) sees locals washing away the previous year's grim in the river; Lhabab Düchen (November-December) commemorates Buddha's descent from heaven.    
north_east_asia_tibet_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Tibetan approach to Mt Everest or Qomolangma (8848m/29,021ft) provides far better vistas of the world's highest peak than those on the Nepal side. Some 27,000 sq km (10,422 sq mi)around Everest's Tibetan face have been designated as the Qomolangma Nature Preserve, aiming to protect the environment and the cultural traditions of the local people. For foreign travellers, the Everest Base Camp has become the most popular trekking destination in Tibet, but this does not mean that the region is exactly swarming with hikers. The two access points are Shegar and Tingri, along the Friendship Highway to Nepal, but be warned that neither trek is an easy three- or four-day stroll. Take your time getting acclimatised and be prepared for a strenuous climb. If it all sounds too much, 4WD vehicles can lurch all the way to Base Camp along the Shegar track.  
north_east_asia_tokyo_activities.html:  Activities  There's no shortage of cultural options for those who want to progress beyond ordering sushi. You can take courses in the art of the tea ceremony, ikebana (flower arranging), shiatsu and zen meditation in various centres around the city. Or for cultural indulgence, you can head to a sento (public bath) or onsen (hot spring) to soak your cares away.  Unless you're based in a five-star hotel with its own facilities, most short-term visitors will probably have to make do without their favourite sporting activities. A lot of people and not much land means a high demand for recreational space - and high prices and long waiting lists. Still, the sports-minded can head to one of the many multi-storey, vertically unchallenged golf courses, get the kendo beaten out of them by attempting to learn a martial art, or brave the beaches of Kanagawa and Chiba in the Tokyo area. If you don't fancy swimming in the sea, there are pools that accept visitors.   Useful Contacts:All Japan Judo Federation: tel 03-3812 9580Big Box Seibu Sports Plaza: tel 03-3208 7171; swimmingInternational Aikido Federation of Japan: 03-3203 9236Iokai Shiatsu Centre: 03-3832 2983; shiatsu massage coursesJapan Karate Association: tel 03-3462 1415; tel 03-3436 4567 (English-speaking)Kenkyusha Eigo Centre: tel 03-5262 8950; tea ceremony coursesKojimachi Rebirth: tel 03-3261 3493; shiatsu massagesRokuryu: tel 03-3821 3826; hot-spring bath-houseback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to TokyoTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
north_east_asia_tokyo_attractions.html:  Attractions  The Japanese emperor and the imperial family still call the Imperial Palace home, so unless you get a royal invite to tea, tourists are restricted to the outskirts and the gardens. New Year's Day (2 January) and 23 December (the Emperor's birthday) are the only exceptions to this rule.  The biggest drawcard of the Imperial Palace, both literally and metaphorically, is Edo-jo castle. From the 17th century until the Meiji Restoration, it was used as the impregnable fortress of the ruling shogunate. Over the years the castle was upgraded, added to, renovated and built onto with all the force of a rabid renovator. For a while it was the largest castle in the world but all the DIY'ing came to an abrupt end when large portions of it were destroyed in the transfer of power from shogun back to emperor during the Meiji Restoration.  The Imperial East Garden is entered through one of three gates, although the most popular is the Ote-mon, which was once the principle gate of Edo-jo. The garden is an oasis of quiet after the bustle of Tokyo, and characteristically Japanese; a horizon of clear lines, an attention to detail and the religious placement of objects within the landscape.  
north_east_asia_tokyo_environment.html:  Environment  Tokyo is a vast conurbation spreading out across the Kanto Plain from Tokyo-wan Bay. Almost completely rebuilt after an earthquake in 1923 and again after US air raids in WWII, Tokyo has literally risen from the ashes. It's roughly split into the flashy commercial and business districts west of the central Ginza shopping precinct, and the more down-to-earth residential neighbourhoods to the east. For visitors, nearly everything of interest lies either on or within the JR Yamanote line, the rail loop that circles central Tokyo.  
north_east_asia_tokyo_facts.html:  When to Go  Spring (March to May) is the best time to visit Tokyo, particularly as cherry blossoms begin to appear in early April and this is when the city is at its most beautiful. Autumn is not a bad time to visit either, with its cool temperatures and many clear days, while winter is marked by the occasional snowfall but rarely freezing conditions. The city can be an unpleasant place during summer, when torrential downpours and mugginess combine with the crowded public transport to wear down your calm visitor's facade. And it might be wise to avoid an even more crowded Tokyo during the Golden Week national holiday, from 29 April to 5 May.     Events  Expect a total sell-out for travel and lodging during Japan's biggest holidays, New Year (29 December to 6 January) and Golden Week (the lumping together of Green Day, Constitution Day and Children's Day from 27 April to 5 May). Other festivals include Adult's Day (15 January), when ceremonies are held for boys and girls who have reached the age of majority (20). The Japanese celebrate the end of winter in association with Adult's Day by indulging in bean throwing while chanting 'in with good fortune, out with the devils'. Hanami (Blossom Viewing) usually runs from February to April; the romantic Tanabata Matsuri (Star Festival) is on 7 July; and O Bon (Festival of the Dead), when lanterns are floated on rivers, lakes or the sea to signify the return of the departed to the underworld, takes place in mid-August.  Of the many festivals taking place in Tokyo year-round, special mention needs to be given to the typically quirky Japanese festival of Hari-kuyo. In early February women lay to rest the pins and needles that have broken throughout the previous year by 'burying' them in tofu and radishes.    
north_east_asia_tokyo_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Sony building, at the Sukiyabashi intersection, is a must-see for all the cyberjunkies, digi-devotees, www.zoids and Playstation groupies. Any electronic gizmo that has ever been invented is here in the Sony building, as well as some yet-to-be-retailed prototypes. With most of the displays being a hands-on proposition, it's an oversized kid's arcade.  The building itself is a rather phlegmatic version of the sixties - a lot of function over form - but with eight stories of unadulterated electronic heaven who cares about the packaging.  
pacific_american_samoa_activities.html:  Activities  As with many Pacific islands, the greatest attractions for visitors to American Samoa are located in the water. A combination of spectacular coral reefs and undersea coral walls, some over 20m (66ft) deep, makes scuba diving, skin diving and snorkelling attractive options. Experience is necessary for any of these activities, as shallow coral, pounding surf and swift water movements makes most of the coastline treacherous.  Although currently limited, American Samoa is also a burgeoning region for hiking. The steep mountains and lack of established trails mean that only weather-beaten hikers need apply at the moment. The US National Parks Service is planning to establish tracks in the Tutuila and Ta'u sections of the huge National Park of American Samoa. One well-worn track offering great views of Pago Pago and the rugged northwest coast takes you on a 3mi (5km) climb up Mt Alava.  
pacific_american_samoa_attractions.html:  Attractions  Much written about and much maligned, Pago Pago is an alluring mix of the seedy and the dramatically beautiful. On a bad day, the tuna canneries are the only local feature you will be aware of, unless you get hit by an empty Coke can hurled from a passing pick-up truck. Look around and you're likely to see a polluted harbour, lots of litter and - perhaps worst of all - the mess that is the infamous Rainmaker Hotel. Although reports have been OK recently, it'll take a few more generations before this government-run complex lives down its long-held reputation as the worst hotel in the South Pacific. Usually though, the town (or, more correctly, towns) offers visitors a reasonably pleasant, light-industrial, small-town experience. The picturesque harbour is surrounded by high, almost wicked-looking mountains that plunge straight into the sea.   Mt Alava towers over Pago Pago Harbor, where you can make the walk to the summit for great views of the island along a 5km (3mi) trail. The Jean P Haydon Museum houses numerous artefacts of early Samoa, and a fascinating native pharmacopoeia. On Saturday, a farmers' market is held near the bus station.  
pacific_american_samoa_environment.html:  Environment  Right in the heart of the South Pacific, to the north of Tonga and 2300 mi (3700km) south-west of Hawaii, lie the five islands and two atolls of American Samoa. Just west of the nearby 171st meridian lie the islands of independent Samoa (formerly Western Samoa), with which American Samoa shares a long history, traditional beliefs and a love/hate relationship. The bulk of the land area of American Samoa is held by the main island of Tutuila, which, along with the other islands in the group, is a wildly steep, perfect example of a volcanic remnant.  Most of the surface area is covered by lush rainforests, though on the higher parts of Ofu, Olosega and Ta'u island, there are temperate forests featuring ferns, grasses and mosses. The rainforests are a natural apothecary, containing 75 plant species used by traditional healers. Western medicine has identified six pharmacologically active compounds, including prostratin, which prevents the reproduction of HIV virus in human cells. Although rapid modernisation is putting pressure on the environment of American Samoa, the 10,000 acre (4000ha) National Park of American Samoa is a major contribution to the ecological health of the region. Because of its distance from continental landmasses, few animal or bird species have inhabited American Samoa. Two species of flying fox, a bat species and the Polynesian rat are the area's only land mammals (aside from people). You might also stumble upon a few skinks, geckos, turtles and harmless boas, but otherwise, the islands belong to humans.  Lying just south of the equator, American Samoa shares all of the expected tropical weather traits. It's hot and humid all year round, with average temperatures ranging from 65 F to 90 F (18 C to 32 C). There is a wet season (summer) between November and April and dry season (winter) from May to October. If you're visiting the harbour area on Tutuila, you'll almost inevitably get wet: the nearby Rainmaker Mountain regularly lives up to its name and dumps over 200in (5000mm) of rain per year on the capital, Pago Pago (pronounced 'Pango Pango').  
pacific_american_samoa_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: No visas are required for travel to American Samoa, however US citizens must have proof of this status and everyone else must have a valid passport. You will also need an onward ticket. Citizens of independent Samoa require a permit to enter American Samoa.Health risks: In general, American Samoa is a safe, healthy place to visit, though there are occasional outbreaks of dengue fever and filariasis. If you're careful, you should have no trouble with food and water. Pago Pago has clean, pure water. Village water is a bit less reliable; you'd be better off sticking to the bottled stuff. Be wary of dehydration in the heat and ensure food is either recently cooked or washed with purified water to avoid nasty tummy upsets.Time: GMT/UTC - 11 hours.Electricity: 110VWeights & measures: Imperial When to Go  The best time to enjoy American Samoa - and especially the island's capital - is between June and September, when the chances of fine weather are a bit better. The risk of tropical cyclones (hurricanes) is reduced at this time, too.     Events  All of the US public holidays are observed in American Samoa, as are the major Christian festivals. The territorial holiday, Flag Day, falls on 17 April, and is commemorated by an arts festival, fautasi (longboat) races, singing, dancing, traditional sports and skills competitions, and extraordinary, long-winded speeches by political figures. White Sunday is like a national kids day. On the second Sunday in October, children dress in white and lead church services. Afterwards, they're the guests of honour at feasts served to them by adults. The subtly named Tourism Week takes place in early May, and features celebrations and traditional sports. In August the high point is the crowning of Miss American Samoa. Designed to draw more tourists to the country, the week's events aren't as big or as popular as independent Samoa's similar Teuila Festival.    
pacific_american_samoa_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  75mi (120km) from Pago Pago, on Ta'u, in the national park, is Judds Crater. It's a six-hour walk from Ta'u village, and is a huge volcanic crater. Although impressive, getting there is most of the challenge. You'll need a local guide and lots of water. In the near future, the National Park rangers are planning a walking track to the crater. This will make the trip considerably easier, but much less of an adventure.  
pacific_cook_islands_activities.html:  Activities  With all that water, watersports are the most obvious activity. The swimming's great, especially off Rarotonga and Aitutaki. Both of these islands also have excellent snorkeling opportunities, with high visibility and varied marine life.  There are several great places for hiking. Rarotonga's Cross-Island Track and Atiu's Vai Momoiri Track are two of the best hikes, both great views and neither taking more than a few hours. Cycling is popular on Rarotonga and Aitutaki, where you can rent bikes and cover more ground. Cavers have lots of choices, especially on Atiu, Mauke, Mintier and Mangaia. There's also good cave diving on Mauke, though you'll need to be certified and ask around for the caves' locations.  Though the missionaries managed to stamp out the practice on most of the other Cook Islands, tumunu, or bush beer-drinking 'schools', are still held on the island of Atiu. Descended from the Polynesian habit of kava drinking, the tumunu managed to survive in the bush, where islanders once brewed oranges. These days they use hops, creating a flat, warm, strong brew quaffed in an elaborate ceremony involving music, prayer and short introductions from each participant. Visitors frequently participate in the tumunu.  The Cook Islands are famous for their dancing, and visitors are encouraged to get up and get down. Friday night is the big night for putting the hips in motion, especially on Rarotonga and Aitutaki, though there are 'island nights' on most of the inhabited islands.  
pacific_cook_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  Avarua, the capital of the Cook Islands and Rarotonga's main town, lies in the middle of the northern coast. Until recently, Avarua was a sleepy little port, very much the image of a South Seas trading centre. The town had quite a facelift to spruce it up for the international Maire Nui festival in 1992, and it's had some development since, but its relaxed, friendly ambience remains. The focal point of the town is the traffic circle, located toward the eastern end of town near Avarua Harbour. Just east of the circle is the Seven-in-One Coconut Tree, a group of trees growing in a perfect circle of their own. Legend has it that they've grown from the same seed.  Among the reminders of the missionary era of the 19th century are the Papeiha Stone, named for the first person to preach the Christian gospel in the Cook Islands; and the CICC Church, dating from 1853 and graced with a beautiful graveyard. Over at the Library & Museum Society you can check out books from their extensive Pacific collection and peruse displays on basketry, weaving, musical instruments and photographs in their small museum.  
pacific_cook_islands_environment.html:  Environment  The Cook Islands are located in the South Pacific, about 1875 miles (3015 km) north-east of Auckland, 3100 miles (4985 km) north-east of Sydney, and 3610 miles (5815 km) south-east of Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea. The Cooks' nearest neighbours are Tahiti to the east and American Samoa to the west, each roughly 1500km (930mi) away. About equal in total land area to the Australian Capital Territory or the US state of Rhode Island, the Cook Islands are spread across some 2 million sq km (772,200 sq mi) of sea, an area as large as Western Europe.  The 15 islands form two groups, northern and southern, separated by as much as 1000km (620mi) of empty sea. The southern group, mostly young volcanic islands, are actually a continuation of the Austral chain in southern French Polynesia. The northern group are all older coral atolls. The largest of the Cooks is Rarotonga (67 sq km/25 sq mi); the smallest is Suwarrow (.4 sq km/.2 sq mi). The landscape ranges from mountainous Rarotonga to many nearly flat cays and atolls, invisible from afar and easily washed over by large waves.  Rarotonga has the largest variety of vegetation, including coconut palm-lined beaches, citrus groves and a central jungle of ferns, creepers and towering trees. The pandanus tree, whose leaves are important for traditional handicrafts (mats, baskets, etc), is common among most of the southern islands. On the atolls of the northern group, the soil is usually limited and infertile and there is little vegetation apart from the coconut palms.  The only mammals considered native are Pacific fruit bats, which are found only on Mangaia and Rarotonga. Rats and pigs were introduced to the islands; many pigs are domesticated by tying one of their legs to a coconut tree. Rarotonga also has many dogs, some cats and goats and a few horses and cattle. There are few birds on the islands; most are in the hills of Rarotonga. Many birds have been driven out by the frequently obnoxious mynah bird, introduced years ago to control insects. Among endemic birds are the cave-dwelling Atiu swiftlet, the chattering kingfisher of Atiu and Mauke and the Mangaia kingfisher. The Rarotonga flycatcher, or kakerori, is found only on a limited area of the island and is slowly making a comeback from the endangered species list. The waters around the islands are swarming with parrotfish, sea cucumbers and humpback whales, among others.  The Cooks have a pleasantly even climate year round. The mountainous interior of Rarotonga tends to be wetter than elsewhere in the islands, though it can rain for a week straight at any time. The wet season runs from December to March, which are also the hottest months (the islands are south of the Equator), when the average daily high reaches 29 C (84 F) in February. The coolest months are June through September, when the average daily high plummets to 25 C (77 F). Hurricane season lasts from November to March, though severe storms are rare, averaging once every 20 years.  
pacific_cook_islands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas aren't required, only passports, proof of onward travel and booked accommodation.Health risks: Tap water is not treated and you should consider boiling itTime: GMT/UTC minus 9 hoursElectricity: 240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Any time is a good time to visit the Cook Islands. Seasonal variations are slight. Festivals may sway your plans: the big dance competition is in late April, the independence bash in early August.     Events  Island traditions are on display during Cultural Festival Week (second week of February), featuring tivaevae quilt competitions and arts and crafts displays; and Island Dance Festival Week (third week of April), with dance displays and competitions culminating in the crowning of male and female Dancers of the Year. Song Quest, held over five weeks beginning in July, culminates in a big finale where singers, musicians and performers from throughout the islands search for stardom on Rarotonga.  Beginning on the Friday before 4 August, the 10-day Constitution Festival celebrates independence with sports, dances, music, historical and cultural displays and many other events. This is the Cooks' major festival of the year. During the last week of November, floral float parades, a beauty pageant and flower arranging competitions all mark the Tiare (Floral) Festival. Dancing and other entertainments mark New Year's Eve.   Public Holidays 1 January - New Year's Day Easter Holidays - Good Friday, Easter Monday 25 April - Anzac Day First Monday in June - Queen's Birthday 26 July - Gospel Day (Rarotonga only) 4 August - Constitution Day 26 October - Gospel Day (Cook Islands) 27 October - Flag Raising Day 25 December - Christmas 26 December - Boxing Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to Cook IslandsTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
pacific_cook_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Atiu may be the best kept secret in the Cooks, with beautiful scenery, excellent beaches and few other visitors. The island itself is a geological curiosity: surrounded by ring of raised fossilised coral - a feature known as a makatea - a kilometre wide, with a flat-topped, 70m (230ft) hill. As a result, the island resembles a very low-brimmed hat with a flat outer rim.  Aside from Taunganui Harbour, where the water's deep and clear, there isn't much in the way of swimming, though Atiu's beautiful beaches are great for strolling and sunning. Many beaches are a short walk from the coastal road, though you'll have to push through the bush to get to some of them. Oravaru Beach, on the western coast, is thought to be Captain Cook's landing spot. Between Tarapaku Landing and Oneroa Beach on the north-eastern coast are the Three Grottoes, which can only be visited when the sea is calm on the eastern side of the island. Oneroa itself is a great spot for finding seashells - or finding old shoes, which seem to wash up in large numbers. At low tide, the lagoon between Takauroa Beach and Matai Landing drains out through sinkholes, which are then good for snorkeling. You can also walk out from the beach along the reef at low tide to the Coral Garden, which is filled with trapped tropical fish.  The steep road between Tarapaku Landing and Tengatangi Village passes through plantations, taro fields, pawpaw trees, makatea, littoral forest and a long wall called the Vairakai Marae, constructed from 47 large limestone slabs. When you reach the top, you can make the circuit of the island's five villages, all within a kilometre of each other. A highlight of Atiu's village life is the Fibre Arts Studio, located in Teenui in the north-west. The studio specialises in tivaevae, the colourful patterned bedspreads that are among the most famous handicrafts of the Cook Islands. You can custom order a quilt or buy one of the many other hangings, handbags and other accessories available.  Toward the south-eastern corner of the village circuit is the Atiu Island Coffee Factory, where you can watch the coffee beans being hulled, roasted and packed. You can also tour the coffee plantation and sample some island brew. Back down on the makatea there are dozens of caves, many of which can be explored. You may want to take a guided tour, though, as it's easy to get lost.  There are several daily flights between Atiu and Rarotonga, and inter-island passenger freighters sail regularly to Atiu.  
pacific_federated_states_of_micronesia_activities.html:  Activities  What the Federated States of Micronesia lack in land they more than make up for in water. Some of the region's most spectacular scenery is underwater, and the traveller who never looks below the surface is missing out on some incredible sights. What's more, the balmy water temperature means you won't even need a wetsuit. Divers the world over know about Chuuk's underwater wreck museum; more than 60 Japanese ships, as well as numerous planes, were sunk here during WWII, and most are still as they were at the time they hit the bottom. There are also some shallower wrecks suitable for snorkellers. Diving off Yap is enlivened by its schools of manta rays.  There's not much space for walking in the country, but there's some decent hiking on Tofol, Kosrae. The hike to the top of Mt Finkol takes 8 to 10 hours, and is a strenuous climb through rivers and mud. When you get to the top you can see all three of Kosrae's islands. Pohnpei's jungle interior also makes for some pretty good treks.  
pacific_federated_states_of_micronesia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Kosrae is one of the least spoiled and least developed areas in the Federated States, a laid-back place that retains an air of innocence. The main island measures 42 sq miles (109 sq km) and is volcanic with an interior of uncharted rainforests, a pristine fringing reef and a coast which is a mix of sandy beaches and mangrove swamps. The people are casual and unpretentious and, given that it's unusual to have more than about a dozen visitors at a time on the island, the residents still take a friendly interest when someone new is in town.  Impressive ruins on the connected island of Lelu date from around the 14th century when Kosrae's chief's were the dominant regional power. Though the outskirts of the massive royal city have been torn down, the remaining ruins still give the feeling of being in an ancient, hidden city, the kind of isolated setting you might imagine trekking hours through dense jungle to find. Lelu Hill, the island's high point, has a scattering of caves and tunnels used by the Japanese in WWII.  Kosrae has unspoiled coral reefs close to shore that are suitable for both walk-in and boat diving. Underwater visibility can easily be 100ft (30m), and in summer as much as 200ft (60m). The Blue Hole in Lelu harbours coral heads, lionfish, stingrays and barracuda. In the south, a nice spot is Hiroshi's Point, a drift dive that takes in beautiful soft corals and hammerhead sharks. There's an American search plane in about 60ft (20m) of water at the mouth of Lelu Harbor. Also in the vicinity are two Japanese boats and the remains of a whaling ship.  Accommodation in Kosrae is limited to a scattered handful of small and not particularly cheap hotels. Camping is a fairly foreign concept, but amenable locals will probably help you arrange somewhere to pitch a tent. Flights between Guam and Honolulu generally make a free stopover in Kosrae and there are also island-hopping flights to Pohnpei and the neighbouring Marshall Islands' Majuro Atoll.  
pacific_federated_states_of_micronesia_environment.html:  Environment  Micronesia means small islands, and that's exactly what they are. The Federated States of Micronesia are made up of four island groups - Yap, Chuuk, Pohnpei and Kosrae - located in the eastern half of the Pacific Ocean. They're roughly 3000 miles (5000km) west of Hawaii, 2000 miles (3000km) east of the Philippines and 1000 miles (1500km) north of Papua New Guinea. Although they cover an ocean expanse five times the size of France, the total land mass of the 607 islands is less than the size of an average US city, and many world maps don't even bother marking them. Pohnpei occupies nearly half the country's land area, with the rest almost equally divided between the other three states. The islands of Pohnpei, Kosrae and Chuuk are high volcanic islands, while Yap is a raised part of the Asian continental shelf. Don't expect coconut palm-fringed coral atolls - these islands are more like the volcanic islands of Hawaii, with fertile soils, lush vegetation and abundant water.  The only land mammals native to the Federated States of Micronesia are bats. You'll see fruit bats, with wingspans of up to 3ft (1m), at dusk on most of the islands. There's a few Asian sambar deer left on Pohnpei, but you're unlikely to see one. There are also huge monitor lizards (which grow up to 6ft (2m) long), and cute little geckoes and skinks, but no snakes. The most common fauna are insects, and you'll be sure to run into plenty of mosquitoes, beach gnats and cockroaches.  What with all the water around, there's plenty of exciting marine life to goggle at. There's a wide range of hard and soft corals, anemones, sponges, whales, porpoises and shellfish, including the giant tridacna clam. A few species of sea turtle lay their eggs on the local beaches, and the islanders use both turtles and eggs for food. The islands are also aflutter with more than 200 species of birds.  The Federated States of Micronesia have a tropical oceanic climate that is consistently warm and humid, with some of the most uniform year-round temperatures in the world. Most days it's around 81 F (27 C) - sometimes it gets up to 90 F (32 C), sometimes it drops to 70 F (21 C). It's a little drier, cooler and breezier between December and March than it is the rest of the year. The wettest months are April and May - not the months to go camping in Pohnpei's interior, which is one of the rainiest places on earth. From July to November the humidity can be oppressive. Typhoon season is between August and December.  
pacific_federated_states_of_micronesia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visas are not required for tourist visits up to 30 days. Your 30 days start afresh each time you move to a different island group. US citizens can extend their permit for up to a year.Health risks: TyphoidTime: GMT/UTC plus 10 hours in Yap and Chuuk; GMT/UTC plus 11 hours in Pohnpei and KosraeElectricity: 110/120V, 60HzWeights & measures: Imperial When to Go  Go to the Federated States of Micronesia whenever the boss gives you time off. The temperature hovers around a balmy 81 F (27 C) all year, so don't worry about the weather. If it's a little more humid between July and November, at least you're never far from a cooling dip in the ocean. The islands are off the tourist trail so there's no distinct high season and few visitors at any time of year.     Events  The Federated States of Micronesia celebrate most of the standard Western holidays: Christmas, New Year's Day and the American staple, Thanksgiving. In addition to FSM Constitution Day, on 10 May, and FSM Independence Day, on 3 November, each of the island groups celebrates its own national days. Kosrae's big holiday is Liberation Day, on 8 September, marking the American defeat of Japan on the islands at the end of WWII. Celebrations include sports competitions and canoe races. Christmas on Kosrae is a bit of a treat, with formation marching and singing competitions - Kosraen church choirs can belt out a spectacular tune - and a grand feast open to all.  Yap's big shindig is Yap Day, in the first week of March, with plenty of colourful ceremonial dancing and sporting events. Mitmits - all-out feasts accompanied by the liberal distribution of gifts and ceremonial singing and dancing - are held throughout the year. One village holds a mitmit for another village, which reciprocates the following year.    
pacific_federated_states_of_micronesia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Nukuoro is a real haven. One of Pohnpei's outer atolls, it comprises 42 tiny islets formed in a near-perfect circle around a lagoon 4 miles (6km) in diameter. The Polynesian inhabitants are very welcoming, making this a fine place to spend some time just lazing around on beaches, picking up seashells and playing with island children. There is a guesthouse on the pier. There's no airport on Nukuoro; an irregular passenger boat passes about once a month.  
pacific_fiji_activities.html:  Activities  Fiji caters for most outdoorsy activities, but some visitors prefer to be inert on a beach and practise hand-to-mouth skills with a tropical cocktail. Most travellers, however, go with plans to do some swimming, snorkelling or diving, and Fiji offers these as well as some excellent surfing, river rafting, wind surfing and sailing. There are fringing reefs all over the islands for splendid diving and snorkelling, but good surf breaks are fewer and farther between. The Mamanucas have some dedicated surfing resorts and good waves but you need a boat to get to the offshore reefs where they break. There are a few good breaks off Viti Levu including those near Sigatoka and the Suva lighthouse, and off Yanuca island.  On dry land you can go cycling, trekking and horse riding, or engage in the more cerebral 'activities' of bird-watching and exploring archaeological sites. Fiji is well set up for tourists and there are facilities everywhere offering equipment for hire, day tours and courses.  
pacific_fiji_attractions.html:  Attractions  Suva, Fiji's capital, is on the south-eastern coast of the big island of Viti Levu. While Nadi, in the west of this island, is the tourism centre of the country, Suva is interesting as the country's political and administrative centre as well as the major port. Suva and its urban surrounds are home to half of Fiji's urban population, and it is one of the South Pacific's largest and most sophisticated cities, housing the University of the South Pacific, the fascinating Fiji Museum and many interesting colonial-era buildings. It's a multicultural city with many mosques, temples, churches and cultural centres. The Roman Catholic Cathedral (1902) is one of the city's most prominent landmarks.  The waterfront area is very interesting, and the Suva Municipal Market is a must-see for visitors for its exotic fruits and vegetables, kava, fish and seafood, and spices. It has an exciting multicultural flavour, with vendors selling brightly coloured Indian sweets and savouries, and fruit drinks from glass tanks.  
pacific_fiji_environment.html:  Environment  The Fiji islands are situated in the South Pacific, midway between Melanesia (Solomons, Vanuatu, New Caledonia and Papua New Guinea) and Polynesia (Tonga, Samoa, the Cooks and French Polynesia). They are south of the equator, just north of the Tropic of Capricorn and west of the International Dateline. The territorial limits enclose an area of 1.3 million sq km (half a million sq mi), but only 1.5% of this is dry land. About 300 islands make up the nation.  Viti Levu at 10,390 sq km (4052 sq mi), and Vanua Levu at 5538 sq km (2160 sq mi) are the biggest islands. Suva, the country's capital is on the south-western coast of Viti Levu, and the island also has the country's highest peak - Mt Tomanivi (Mt Victoria) at 1323m (4339ft). Taveuni and Kadavu are also substantial islands, but the rest of the country is made up of small islands divided into the Lomaiviti, Lau, Moala, Yasawa, Mamanuca and Rotuma groups. Many of these islands are relatively untouched and there are many beautiful reefs, lagoons, harbours, as well as natural vegetation.  Since the 1960s, around 15% of the country's forests have been cleared and erosion is a problem. Management of the environment has been poor, and pollution and waste continue to sully the waterways and lands around the urban areas, particularly around Suva. In some areas, fish consumption is a health hazard.  Of the 3000-odd plant species identified on the Fiji islands, around one-third are endemic. Fijians developed uses for much of the native flora for food, medicine, dyes, implements and building materials. Around 3500 years ago the first settlers brought poultry, dogs and pigs, and this coincided with the extinction of at least three of the indigenous bird species - two megapodes and a giant fruit pigeon. Bats are the only remaining indigenous land mammals but introduced animal species have taken to the local habitats with relish. Happy and established interlopers include the Indian mongoose (introduced to control rats in the sugar-cane plantations), feral dogs, cats, pigs, goats and rats. The 20 species of land-dwelling reptiles include turtles and sea-snakes, but the migration of the crested iguana from South America is a bit of a mystery. There are about 100 bird species, 23 of which are native. Sea life is abundant and varied, and many species of coral, sponges, tropical reef fish, rays, sharks, dolphins and whales call the Fijian waters home (or call in on their way home).  Fiji enjoys a mild and stable climate most of the year, due to the large expanses of open water that surround its islands. The prevailing winds are easterly and south-easterly; the mountainous spines of the larger islands produce clouds and greater rainfall on their windward sides. The wet season extends from November to April, but rain falls throughout the year. Daytime temperatures average around 25 C (77 F), and humidity is generally high. Tropical cyclones can blow up between November and April, although they are rarely dangerous.  
pacific_fiji_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most travellers will automatically be issued a four week tourist visa upon arrival. This includes travellers from most Commonwealth countries, most North, South and Central American countries, Western Europe, Israel and Japan. The visa is issued free of charge and you won't have to pay for any subsequent extensions.Health risks: Dengue fever - no prophylactic is available for this mosquito-spread disease. Avoid mosquito bites (especially during epidemics).Time: GMT/UTC plus 12 hoursElectricity: 240V, 50 HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 300,000 visitors per year When to Go  Its mild tropical climate means that Fiji can be enjoyed all year round and it is a popular escape from the winters in both the northern and southern hemispheres. Perhaps the best time to go, however, is in the dry season or 'Fiji winter', from May to October. This time of year has cooler temperatures, less rainfall and humidity, and less risk of tropical cyclones.     Events  Fijians celebrate New Year's Day with gusto and the festivities can last a week (or even a month!) in some villages. In February or March Hindu Holi (Festival of Colours) sees people squirt each other with coloured water. Ram Naumi (Birth of Lord Rama) is a Hindu festival held in March or April and includes a religious festival and party on the shores of Suva Bay.  During May the nation honours Ratu Sir Lala Sukuna with a public holiday. He is considered Fiji's greatest statesman, soldier, high chief and scholar, and the day is celebrated with regional cultural shows and games. The Constitution Day holiday and Prophet Mohammed's Birthday holiday fall in July. The Sugar Festival is celebrated in September at Lautoka, and Fiji Day (Independence Day) falls in early October. During October or November Hindus celebrate the Diwali Festival (Festival of Lights). They worship Lakshmi, the goddess of wealth and prosperity, decorate their houses and settle up their business affairs.    
pacific_fiji_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Levuka, on the island of Ovalau west of Viti Levu, was the capital of the country during the first period of British colonial rule, but due to the town's limited space (squeezed between the mountains and the sea) the capital was shifted to Suva in 1882. The town was the first European settlement in Fiji, with sandalwood traders settling there as early as 1806, and throughout the 1800s the town boomed as sailors and whalers called in, planters came and colonial administrators established themselves there. At its height there were 52 hotels along Beach St and it became a wild and lawless place.  Today Levuka has slowed down an awful lot, but its colonial buildings are in remarkably good condition and it has the feeling of a Wild West tumbleweed town. The population is mostly of mixed Fijian and European descent. The PAFCO (Pacific Fishing Company) fishery employs 1000 people (about a third of the local working population). There are three large stones at the southern end of Beach St that mark the Cession Site where the dreaded deed with Britain was signed back in 1874, and along this waterfront promenade you come upon the Sacred Heart Church (1858), Marist Convent School (1891), the town hall (1898), and the Romanesque Masonic Lodge (1924), just to name a few. There's good diving and snorkelling in the area and bicycles are available for hire.   Lovoni village, west of Levuka in the centre of Ovalau, is nestled within a spectacular extinct volcanic crater. Guided walks to the village from Levuka explore rainforest, a chief's burial site and the Korolevu Hill Fort.  
pacific_guam_activities.html:  Activities  Since Guam's greatest attractions are in the surrounding sea, scuba diving is high on the list of things to do. Underwater visibility is excellent and there are plenty of fishies and reefs. Surfing is also popular. Windsurfing and snorkelling paraphernalia is available for hire, as are canoes and kayaks. For the less sporty, the Atlantis submarine takes the paying public on tours of one of Guam's best reefs. On dry land, golf is the premier sporting pastime and there are seven courses on which to flaunt your plus fours. There's plenty of good swimming and hiking, especially at Tarzan Falls in central Guam, where such pursuits are known as boonie stomping - Guamanian American for venturing off the beaten track.  
pacific_guam_attractions.html:  Attractions  The city of Hagat a (formerly known as Aga a) has been the centre of Guam ever since the Spanish first set about remodelling the island on behalf of God. The town is small enough to explore on foot in an afternoon and there are plenty of parks and historic buildings. Central Hagat a features the remains of Casa Gobierno, the Governor's Palace, which dates back to 1736.  Don't miss the revolving statue of Pope John Paul II, on the site where the man himself held mass in 1981. The twirling pontiff certainly beats the miniature Statue of Liberty in Paseo de Susana Park to the north. In the south-east of the park, a statue of Chief Quipuha stands forever condemned to survey the congested traffic of Hagat a's main thoroughfare, Marine Drive. Quipuha donated the land for Guam's first Catholic church, the site of the present Dulce Nombre de Maria Cathedral in the town centre of Plaza de Espa a. Next door is Latte Park, named after the mysterious stone pillars, or lattes, moved here from an ancient Chamorro village. Dating back to 500 AD, the pillars are thought to have been the foundations for some very impressive native homes.  
pacific_guam_environment.html:  Environment  The largest and southernmost island in the Mariana Archipelago, Guam lies about 3800km (2356mi) southeast of Tokyo. It was created by an uplift of undersea volcanoes and has two distinct geological regions north and south of a narrow waist. The northern half is a coral limestone plateau, while the southern half is a generally prettier mixture of volcanic hills and valleys. Guam's only indigenous mammals are a couple of species of bats, and the island's birdlife has been devoured by the infamous brown tree snake. Accidently air-lifted in 50 odd years ago, the snake has cast an eerie silence over Guam's forests by polishing off all nine species of native birds - a disaster that also has huge ramifications for the life cycles of endemic plants and insects.  The island's steady tropical climate maintains temperatures at a pretty constant 25-30 C (77-86 F) all year round. May, June and July are the hottest months. Guamanians really only talk of two seasons, the dry and the rainy. The dry season ( fanumnangan) runs from December to June and then it's rainy time ( fanuchanan) for the rest of the year. From June to November, Guam is also nestled in the hatchery of the western Pacific typhoons.  
pacific_guam_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US citizens don't need a visa to visit Guam, or any other Micronesian islands. Anyone else (except Canadians and those travelling on a visa waiver) must obtain a US visa in advance. Under Guam's visa waiver programme, citizens of certain countries may enter Guam for up to 15 days for business or pleasure without a US visa. Those countries include Australia, Japan, New Zealand and Great Britain.Health risks: Sunburn, fungal infections, and gut troubleTime: GMT/UTC plus 10 hoursElectricity:120VWeights & measures: Imperial When to Go  Go to Guam whenever the boss gives you time off. The temperature hovers around a balmy 81 F (27 C) all year, so don't worry about the weather. If it's a little more humid between July and November, at least you're never far from a cooling dip in the ocean. The only time you should really avoid Guam is during Japanese holiday seasons: Christmas, Golden Week (the last week of April and the first week of May), and Obon, in August.     Events  Guam's grandest holiday celebrations happen on July 21 - Liberation Day, when the entire population seems to hit the streets for a parade, followed by fireworks in the evening. Also in July is the island carnival at Y'pao Beach Park. From April all the way through to October the villages of southern Guam hold their yearly fiestas, which turn sleepy hollows into wild 'block parties', food and beer is on the house, and everybody's welcome. One of the best known of these is the three-day Malojloj Fiesta, starting May 16, in the historic town of Inarajan.    
pacific_guam_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  About 3km (1.9mi) off Guam's southern tip, Cocos Island is surrounded by a vast barrier reef and blessed with good beaches and lagoons. While most of Cocos is privately owned, the west side of the island - a former US Coast Guard station area - is part of the territorial park system. To get to the park, called Dano, you must either hike over from the resort dock or commandeer a private boat. Picnicking and camping facilities are available. Boats go to Cocos from the town of Merizo several times a day.  
pacific_kiribati_activities.html:  Activities  There are not many organised activities on Kiribati, so your best bet is to arrange your own diving or game fishing early. The underwater visibility is generally excellent and the underwater life is wild, whether you want to view it through a diving mask or on the end of a hook. Several companies hire gear and boats, and at least one large operation is based on South Tarawa. The surfing is reportedly great on Tabuaeran Island.  
pacific_kiribati_attractions.html:  Attractions  Tarawa is not a single town but a group of islands surrounded by a coral atoll, and apart from the south where causeways link the islets, you'll need a boat to navigate around the main features. The international airport is on Bonriki in the south-east corner, which also hosts the new hospital and fish ponds. The central government offices, Parliament building, President's Office and Residence, central post office, bank, library and archives, and various other official buildings including the Air Kiribati Travel Agency are all on Bairiki Island.   Betio Island, probably the most populous in Kiribati, has the port, shipyard and main power station, and it's where you'll go if you need to cool your heels overnight in jail. Betio also has a large number of war relics, after fierce fighting during a major marine assault in November 1943. On Ambo Island the 'greens' of the golf course are rolled sand. Tarawa is one of the most densely populated areas in the Pacific, with a population density similar to Hong Kong's.  
pacific_kiribati_environment.html:  Environment  Kiribati's territorial waters are vast (nearly the size of Argentina and Chile combined), but the stuff where the coconuts grow is only a little larger than New York City. Kiribati comprises three island groups: the Gilbert, Line (Northern and Southern) and Phoenix Islands. They sit bang smack over the equator, with Tuvalu to the south, the Marshall Islands to the north-west and Nauru out west. The 34 islands are all low lying atolls apart from the mine-scarred wasteland of Banaba, which at its highest point hits 87m (285ft). Christmas Island in the Line Islands is the biggest coral atoll in the world, but none of the islands support much vegetation because soil is scarce. Although there are no rivers, most islands have a freshwater lagoon.  Fauna is limited to the Polynesian rat, plentiful sea birds and a couple of species of lizard. Sea life is far more diverse, and the stunning coral reefs fringing most of the islands harbour a huge variety of fish. Seaside scrub is common, mangroves and pandanus grow on some islands, and others support woodland rich in epiphytes and ferns. Coconuts have been planted widely where they don't occur naturally, and several areas are protected or 'closed'. The nature reserves on Malden Island, Phoenix Island and Starbuck Island are larger than 1000 hectares (2470 acres). The gravest threat to protected areas, and to the whole country, is a possible rise in sea levels owing to global warming. Even if the shorelines don't erode or the land doesn't go under, freshwater aquifers could still become salinised.  From November to February the heat can be oppressive and the rains belt down, but for the rest of the year the climate is moderated by trade winds (it's called 'equatorial maritime', if you're into climatology). The rainfall varies from one island group to another, with those in the far north receiving about 3m (118in) annually, while further to the south, such as on Banaba, there can get droughts. Fortunately, tropical cyclones generally tend to pass Kiribati by.  
pacific_kiribati_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of Britain, Canada and New Zealand can enter visa-free for a 28 day maximum stay. Citizens of other countries need visas, which can be obtained from a Kiribati diplomatic mission.Health risks: Diarrhoeal diseases from unsafe drinking water, sporadic outbreaks of dengue fever.Time: GMT/UTC + 12 hoursElectricity: 240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Go any time except the wet season, which is November to February. The weather will be hot outside of that period, but not as humid nor subject to as many tropical downpours.     Events  Kiribati celebrates all the usual Christian holidays, as well as Independence Day on 12 July and Youth Day on 4 August.    
pacific_kiribati_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The island was uninhabited when Europeans first saw it, but archaeological evidence points to 'local' people - probably Tongans - paying a pre-European visit. The Fanning Island Plantations Ltd Company decided they would own the island during the 19th century, and began exploiting the coconuts growing there for copra. A small and laid back population of a little over 1300 lives there today, and you can snorkel, dive and swim around much of the coast. Tabuaeran is 3130km (1941mi) north-east of Tarawa, and getting there is difficult unless you have your own yacht or can hitch a ride on one.  
pacific_marshall_islands_activities.html:  Activities  The Marshall Islands sit amid some of the world's most spectacular underwater scenery, and the traveler who never looks below the water's surface is missing out on some incredible sights. The water temperature is pretty warm year-round, so wetsuits aren't a necessity (some people wear them for coral-scrape protection, but they shouldn't swim that close to the coral anyway).  For natural attractions, Mili Atoll's waters boast some of the most pristine diving conditions in the country. Another popular site is Calalin Channel, which for all the right reasons has been dubbed 'Shark Alley.' Bikini and Jaluit atolls have some of the best WWII-era wreck diving found anywhere, with scores of warplanes, submarines and battleships to explore. Other good wreck dives are found near Kwajalein. Aur and Ailinglaplap atolls have excellent snorkeling, with a wide variety of tropical fish and corals, plus the odd sea turtle and shark.  Virtually all of the Marshalls have beautiful white-sand beaches, perfect for lounging in the sun even where the waters aren't the safest nor the most sanitary. Some of the best swimming spots are found at Ailinglaplap, Mili Island and Laura Beach at Majuro.  The islands' prime sportfishing catches include marlin, sailfish, yellowfin tuna, skipjack tuna, mahi-mahi and wahoo. Arno Atoll is famous for its abundant catches, as is Mejit, which also has octopus and lobster.   Birdwatchers will want to visit Bikar and Taongi (Bokaak) atolls, as they've both been tagged as potential national preservation areas. The latter was cited as being 'possibly the only example of a completely natural, unaltered, semiarid atoll ecosystem remaining in the world today.' Bikar has an especially large population of green sea turtles.  While in Majuro, you can also play tennis or go bowling, should the mood strike.  
pacific_marshall_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  Most visitors to the Marshalls get only as far as Majuro Atoll, the nation's political and economic center and home to nearly half its populace. The atoll has 57 small islets, the largest of which are connected by a single 55 kilometre (35 mi) stretch of paved road, making Majuro appear to be one long, narrow island. Robert Louis Stevenson called the atoll the 'Pearl of the Pacific' when he visited in 1889, but it's a far less pristine Majuro that one sees today.  Majuro is the most Westernized of the Marshall Islands, but there's still a lot that can be learned about life in the islands from a visit. You can grasp what it's like to live on a ribbon of land so narrow that as often as not you can see the ocean on both sides. By visiting Laura Village, at the westernmost end of the mainland, you can find a rural lifestyle somewhat similar to that of the outer islands. While there, make use of the islands' best beach and Majuro Peace Park, a memorial built by the Japanese and dedicated to those who died in the East Pacific during WWII.  Three of Majuro's islands - Delap, Uliga and Darrit (Rita) - combine to form the D-U-D Municipality, the nation's capital and the most populous spot in the country. It's certainly no tropical paradise, but there are a few sights worth seeing. The Alele Museum is small, but its quality exhibits include displays of early Marshallese culture, stick charts, model canoes and shell tools. There's also a copra processing plant and the shockingly modernistic capitol building to visit.  
pacific_marshall_islands_environment.html:  Environment  If you could sweep the Marshalls' 1200-plus islands and atolls into a single land mass, it'd blanket an area about the size of Washington, DC, or the Caribbean island of Aruba. The islands are grouped into two main chains, Ratak (Sunrise) in the east and Ralik (Sunset) in the west; both run north-south and together spread out across some 1,942,500 sq km (750,000 sq miles) of the central Pacific.  The group lies some 4100km (2500mi) southeast of Japan, 4100km (2500 mi) southwest of Hawaii and 3000km (1900mi) northeast of Papua New Guinea. Its nearest neighbors are the other Micronesian states of Pohnpei and Kosrae, 1000km (650mi) and 650km (400mi) to the south, respectively, and Guam and the Northern Marianas, about 2500km (1500mi) to the west.  The Marshalls consist of low coral limestone and sand islands and islets, the vast majority of which form scattered atolls. Only five are single islands. The islands are particularly narrow, with the widest, Wotje, less than a mile across. They have little fertile topsoil and are devoid of rivers. Their lowest points are their beaches and their highest - an unnamed hillock on Likiep, measuring 10m (34ft) - scarcely shows on the horizon. The country's average elevation is 2m (7ft) above sea level.  In Majuro, the average daily temperature is 81 F (27 C), with the chilliest moments coming during the rainy season, from September through November. The driest period is January through March; June to August are the hottest months. Water temperatures remain around 80 F (26 C) year-round. Mild trade winds and tropical showers are the daily norm, full-blown tropical storms and typhoons are rare.  Hundreds of species of coral can be found in the Marshalls' atolls, as well as 250 species of reef fish and all five of the world's species of marine turtles. Whales, dolphins and porpoises also visit the islands' warm waters. Some 70 bird species have been identified, including over 30 species of seabirds. The Polynesian rat is the only mammal native to the islands, while of reptiles you can see a half dozen species of lizards and one species of blind snake. Coconut land crabs are common and prized for their meat.  The coconut palm tree is Micronesia's most important plant. Copra, the dried meat of the nut from which coconut oil is made, is among the country's leading exports. Other Marshallese flora includes breadfruit, pandanus, taro, arrowroot, yams, pumpkins, tapioca and bananas. As almost all the islands' lands are privately owned by families and clans, there are no national parks or reserves.  In the decades since the American government stopped its nuclear testing there, the US Department of Energy and California's Lawrence Livermore Laboratory have done extensive research on Bikini. Their reports tell us that the environment poses no danger to visitors.  
pacific_marshall_islands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: visas are not required for most visitors; upon arrival visitors will be issued a 30-day entry permit that can be extended twice, for a maximum stay of 90 days, for US$10 per extensionHealth risks: don't drink unboiled tap waterTime: GMT/UTC plus 12 hoursElectricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & measures: imperial When to Go  Rains are common in the Marshalls from March through April and more so from October through November, but these rarely come down hard enough to be called cyclones. Diving is at its best from May through October, when the water is calmest, though water temperatures are bathlike all year round.     Events  Majuro plays host to a number of fishing tournaments each year, with the largest held on the weekend before the fourth Thursday in November and on the weekend closest to 4 July. Many islanders, expats and a growing number of international sportfishing enthusiasts show up with baited hooks.    
pacific_marshall_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Mili can be a good choice for travelers who want to visit one of the outer atolls, as it has friendly people and beautiful beaches and it's not too expensive to reach. After Kwajalein, Mili has the most land area of the Marshallese atolls, with a population of just over 850.  In 1937, famed US aviator Amelia Earhart disappeared in this part of the Pacific in the midst of a flight around the world. Although the mystery surrounding her disappearance remains, she was reportedly seen on Mili under Japanese custody long after her flight went missing.  As a major WWII Japanese base, Mili has many abandoned weapons, war planes and bombed-out buildings still scattered around. The atoll's oceanside beaches are great for shell collecting, while the lagoon's white-sand shores are perfect for lazy days of sunning and swimming. The surrounding waters have pristine diving.  
pacific_nauru_activities.html:  Activities  The diving is good around the island, with WWII wrecks and a fringing coral reef. Sport fishing is taking off, and owing to the deep seas close to shore, marlin, sailfish, wahoo and yellowfin tuna have all been caught not far from the marina. Swimming is good at a couple of places, including the boat harbour, but at some places it is not recommended owing to the treacherous currents. You can walk around the island in a day, and golf and tennis are also options.  
pacific_nauru_attractions.html:  Attractions  Yaren is understandably low on most travellers' agendas, but the beaches aren't far away, and neither is the open ocean if you're planning a deep-sea fishing trip. You can while away a few minutes by looking at the two Japanese guns and the numerous bunkers and pillboxes left after WWII. You could also walk around the machinery dump, or sit in your hotel room and watch Television New Zealand. The hotel does have a bar, casino, shopping and a restaurant serving Thai, Chinese and Indian food. For conference junkies, there's a conference room that seats 200 people.  
pacific_nauru_environment.html:  Environment  This roughly rectangular Pacific island nods its cap toward the north-east and blows out on its south-east shore, vaguely reminiscent of a downcast face in profile. Nauru's closest neighbour is Banaba in Kiribati, 306km (190mi) to the east. It lies 41km (25.5mi) south of the equator and is nearly 4000km (2480mi) north-east of Sydney, Australia. Nauru is the smallest republic in the world - think of seven New York City Central Parks dropped in the middle of the Pacific just south of the equator (with the skaters taken in for questioning and the topsoil scraped off), and you've got a rough idea of its size. There's a small section of vegetation around Buada Lagoon and a green fringe 50m to 100m (165ft to 328ft) around the coast where the bulk of the population lives, but the rest is either open-cut phosphate mine or a mined-out wasteland of mind-boggling proportions. As wastelands go, it is the wasteland to end them all, with weird coral monoliths punching their way out of cavernous pits, totally bereft of topsoil and baked hard under the equatorial sun. Nothing stirs except dust and packs of wild dogs. The rocks heat up and create their own microclimate, dispelling rain clouds and exacerbating the island's chronic water shortage. The central plateau (commonly called 'topside') rises 70m (230ft) above sea level.  Many migrating species of birds drop in to roost on Nauru, seasonally swelling the local population by thousands, although it would take another few million years to rebuild the deposits of guano that have been mined in one century. Most local species of birds are under immense pressure since the wasting of the island's ecology. An indigenous nightingale reed warbler is also known as the Nauru canary, and islanders often keep the local frigatebird, Nauru's national symbol, as a caged pet. There are no native mammals, but rats, cats and mice have inevitably followed the Europeans and taken up residence. Pandanus palms, coconut, frangipani and the Pacific banyan are common tree species, and 179 species of plants and trees have been recorded, among them the indigenous tomano tree, nesting place of the noddy bird, regarded both as a delicacy and a reliable guide to fishing grounds. Bananas, pineapples and some vegetables are grown on land surrounding Buada Lagoon, and thanks to reclamation using garbage and other waste as landfill, some of the mined-out area has reverted to bush. Small plants have recolonised some coral pinnacles, but as you might imagine, national parks are thin on the wasteland.  The climate is tropical and can be uncomfortably hot, but it is often tempered by sea breezes. Temperatures usually waver between 24 C and 34 C (75 F and 93 F). November to February is the monsoon season, when the weather gets awfully humid. If it's a wet year you'll be swimming in the rain, but partly because of the lack of vegetation, tropical droughts and water shortages are all too common.  
pacific_nauru_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: all visitors need to apply for a visa before arrival through one of the government's overseas offices; transit passengers don't require visasHealth risks: packs of wild dogs, dangerous currents, stone fish, coral cutsTime: GMT/UTC plus 12 hoursElectricity: 110/240 volts AC, 50Hz.Weights & measures: metric When to Go  Don't go from November to February. That's the cyclone season and even if you don't get a big storm it can still be unpleasantly humid. Go at any other time of the year, when the weather is tempered by easterly trade winds.     Events  The three festivals islanders celebrate are Independence Day (31 January), Constitution Day (17 May) and Angam Day (26 October). Angam means 'homecoming', and this day commemorates the various times in Nauru's history when the size of the Nauruan population returned to 1500, thought to be the minimum number necessary for survival. Nauruans also celebrate Christmas and Easter.    
pacific_nauru_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Nauru's 'topside' is a burning wasteland of searing white rock, bizarre coral pinnacles and ugly, deep pits. Go and gawk at how mining has ravaged an island's ecology and culture. You should take a taxi to the plateau as it is very hot and dusty; there are also abyss-like craters, and packs of wild dogs roam the area. Within a few years the mining will have played out and, if it can be done, the return of this moonscape to a tropical haven will be a remarkable feat.  
pacific_new_caledonia_activities.html:  Activities  With New Caledonia claiming the world's second biggest coral reef, the diving and snorkelling are spectacular. In summer the water may not be as clear with wet season runoff from the land, but on calm, windless winter's days underwater visibility can reach 50m (165ft). Some of the best dive sites are on le des Pins, Poindimie, Amedee Islet, Mare and southern Grande Terre. Swimming, of course, is an option in most places with so many fine beaches, and the best are on the east coast, Loyalty Islands and le des Pins.   Trekking on foot and horse trekking are both popular, and you can arrange two or three day horse rides into the interior of Grande Terre. There are plenty of possibilities for caving on Grande Terre, le des Pins and the Loyalty Islands. If John Denver's sticky end didn't deter you, you can also try ultra-light flying from Noumea or Lifou in the Loyalties, and to really loosen your bowels there's parapente (parasailing). You run down the edge of a hill or mountain dragging a rectangular parachute behind you till it opens (you hope) by the time you launch off into thin air. Being an outpost of France, the cycling is manic, and they even stage their own version of the Tour de France in September.  
pacific_new_caledonia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Since the bombs and riots of the 1980s, Noumea has begun a swag of new developments unparalleled since the heady days of the nickel boom. Political rallies today are more likely to be protesting forced redundancies and cuts to services than demanding an end to French rule. From Anse Vata in the south, Noumea's most prestigious beach, to the northern suburbs of Koutiou and Yahoue, the town measures little more than 15km (9.3mi).The city centre spreads along Baie de la Moselle to the west, a fine harbour with good shelter for cruise liners, fishing boats and a fleet of private yachts. Further west lies Nouville, site of the colony's first penal settlement, and now connected to the mainland by fill from the nickel smelters. Immediately north of central Noumea the land is mainly industrial, with uninteresting residential and industrial suburbs beyond. On the eastern edge of the peninsula lie the well-to-do waterside suburbs of Ste Marie and Ouemo.  The Jean-Marie Tjibaou Cultural Centre is Noumea's newest and most exciting development, about 10km (6mi) from downtown. Designed to reflect the Kanaks' integral ties to the land, it successfully blends contemporary architectural style and indigenous cultural beliefs, and displays items of Kanak heritage and the cultures of Oceania. The colonial-style Bibliotheque Bernheim is Noumea's main library and a great place to browse. It's pleasant and quiet despite nearby traffic. But to really escape the cars, go to the Noumea Aquarium at Anse Vata. It contains rare and unusual marine life, from sponges and coral through to the big fish with sharp teeth.  Just east of the city centre is the Vallee des Colons, a lively suburb that is today home to many of the town's Kanaks and Polynesian immigrants. Nouville is worth a visit for its convict ruins and the secluded Kuendu Bay, an ideal spot for swimming and, around the headland, for snorkelling. If you want to walk the seamier side in Noumea, try the  Quartier Latin, with a hint of its famous Parisian counterpart, near Port Moselle south of the city centre. And for the downright filthy you can't go past (and you can hardly miss) the Doniambo Nickel Smelter, the 'furnace of Doniambo', a multi-chimney eyesore north of the city centre.  Anse Vata offers the pick of the top-end accommodation, although there are a few budget places in with the four- and five-star hotels. The HI Hostel in the city centre has the cheapest accommodation in town as well as great views of the Baie de la Moselle, but there is a wide range of accommodation (from the Spartan to the luxurious) around town and at Baie des Citrons. Check out the Quartier Latin and Baie des Citrons for cheap eateries, although the centre of town has plenty of snack bars ( snacks) and even the opportunity for a Mcfeast.  
pacific_new_caledonia_environment.html:  Environment  New Caledonia's main island, Grande Terre ('Big Land'), is an off-centre streak of dirt and nickel parked in a turquoise sea, like the arm of a clock stopped eternally at 10 am. Unlike its near neighbours, Vanuatu and the Solomons, which are composed of scores of islands, New Caledonia has comparatively few. What you see - Grande Terre, the Loyalty Islands, le des Pins, the tiny les Belep and a few scattered reefs and volcanic islets - is what you get. The dry land in New Caledonia is slightly larger than Wales, a little smaller than the US state of New Jersey. Grande Terre is divided by a central mountain range, with foggy, dense, wet forests high up and a lush, wild east coast that's seen less European settlement than the west. The west lies in a rain shadow and is consequently much drier, and its windy coastal plains have suffered the worst depredations of the mining and grazing industries. Around 80% of New Caledonia has been cleared of its original forest cover to make way for mining and grazing, and a lot of subsistence agriculture is rolling over for larger-scale export crops such as avocados, rice, oranges and pineapples.  Like many islands, New Caledonia has a high rate of endemic flora (around 80%) and fauna (roughly 30%). The central mountain range on Grande Terre has created numerous microclimates and separated pockets of terrain in which plants and animals have specialised since Noah was in short trousers, or at least since the islands were part of prehistoric Gondwanaland. Three types of reserves exist - nature reserves, special botanical or fauna reserves and one territorial park - and the level of protection in each type of park varies. Currently, 52,000 hectares (130,910 acres) of marine area are protected.  The islands sit on the edge of the tropics, and the weather varies little, with mild, spring-like conditions for most of the year, tempered by the ocean. The biggest variation is from mid-November to mid-April, when it is warm and humid, as opposed to 'winter', from July to August, which is spring-like. Average maximum temperatures vary from 22 C to 28 C (71 F to 82 F). The cyclone season runs from December to March, but woolly weather can show up for a month on either side of that. Generally, though, the seasons alter little, and even the number of daylight hours is stable, from 6 am to 6 pm year-round.  
pacific_new_caledonia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Only citizens of the European Union, Switzerland, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, Australia, Israel and the USA can enter without a visa, and they can stay for three months. Everyone else needs to apply for a visa at a French embassy or consulate before they arrive.Health risks: dengue fever, and the water on Ouvea, one of the Loyalty Islands, is not safe to drink.Time: GMT/UTC plus 11 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: metric When to Go  Go whenever you can seize the chance. If you're nervous about cyclones or mosquitoes you might consider staying home between November and April, or you may want to plan your trip around one or two festivals, such as the Avocado Festival in mid to late May, the three-day Foire de Bourail from late August to early September, or the Equinoxe in October. If you're a diver, don't miss the riot of colour that accompanies the coral spawning in early summer.     Events  The most important Kanak festival, the Festival of the Yam is held in mid-March, although it is not generally open to tourists. Like the French everywhere, New Caledonians celebrate Bastille Day on 14 July. Families and children carrying lanterns gather at dusk on the night before and walk through the streets to Place des Cocotiers, then they let loose a display of fireworks. On the day they hold a military parade in the morning. Mid to late May is the busiest time for festivals, with the Avocado Festival at Nece, Mare to celebrate the harvest,  La Regate des Touques in Noumea, when people race in decorative floats along Anse Vata, and Pacific Tempo, a three-day music festival in Noumea with performers from all over the Pacific.  The Foire de Bourail is a huge country fair with a rodeo, cattle show, horse racing and a beauty pageant in late August or early September. New Caledonia Day on 24 September commemorates Admiral Auguste Febvrier Despointes' claim to New Caledonia for France in 1853; whites have a day off work while the Kanaks consider it a day of mourning. The Equinoxe is a biennial festival of contemporary theatre, dance and music in Noumea in October, and later that month or in early November a popular Sound and Light Show is staged at Fort Tremba, La Foa.    
pacific_new_caledonia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The small town of La Foa is surrounded by lush cane fields and beautiful blackwood and araucaria pines. The town has seen its share of troubles, from its earliest days as a penal settlement through to the shooting of two FLNKS leaders in 1985. The historic Paserelle de Marguerite bridge was designed by two students of Gustave Eiffel, and although it's been superseded by a wider bridge it's still an impressive construction. Fort Teremba, which sits on the plain overlooking Baie de Teremba, was headquarters for the local colonial military and was besieged by Kanaks in 1878 during the great insurrection. It is now used to stage sound and light shows in November. Farino, 3km (1.8mi) from the main road turnoff, has great views over La Foa and out to sea, and sports a popular market, held on the second Sunday of the month. Buses make the 110km (68mi) journey from Noumea to La Foa weekdays.  
pacific_niue_activities.html:  Activities   Diving is Niue's BIG drawcard - the visibility is stunning, and the water is warm (peaking at 29 C/85 F in January, and falling to only 25 C/75 F in August). The snorkelling is mindboggling in Snake Gully, and a little less crowded with sea creatures at the Limu Pools, the Matapa Chasm and, on the east coast, Vaitafe. Swimming is difficult because of all those cliffs and caves, but there are a few tiny patches of beach if you look hard enough, and some fantastic natural rock pools. It's not a good idea to swim outside the reef. Fishing is limited, and it's illegal using scuba equipment - the best bet is to go out with a charter company. A couple of companies operate walking tours, as well as village visits, traditional canoe trips, reef walks, cave tours and forest walks (but be warned - the knife-edge rocks will test even the sturdiest of soles). It's possible to mountain bike around the island's 60km (37mi) perimeter road, but the heat, humidity and often bumpy conditions make it thirsty work. Whale watching is a possibility June-November, as that's when humpback whales come to Niue's waters to breed, and pods of spinner dolphins can often be seen spinning around in the water offshore from Alofi. Hit the island's bars on a Friday or Saturday night, and you'll find a lot of dancing going on - which could explain why Sunday is such a rigorously observed day of rest.  
pacific_niue_attractions.html:  Attractions  Niue's capital is little more than just one long street stretching for several kilometres along the rocky coastline. The waterline is marked by several traditional canoe-landing spots, including Opaahi Landing, the place where Captain Cook made an unsuccessful attempt to come ashore in 1744. There are a couple of pocket-handkerchief sized beaches, notably at Utuko and Omahi. The biggest attractions for divers lie directly offshore - the Chimney, Opaahi and Faka Laina (aka the Toilet Bowl) dives. A drop down into the crystal-clear depths is rewarded by a twisting series of gullies, ravines, chasms, caves and reef ridges. If bad weather hits, head indoors to learn the story of the island's history and culture at the Huanaki Cultural Centre, or visit the Ekalesia Church on Tomb Point. The two headstones outside the church mark the graves of two island kings, Tuitoga (ruled 1876-87) and Fataaiki (1888-96).  
pacific_niue_environment.html:  Environment  Lonely Niue's closest South Pacific neighbours are Tonga (600km/372mi) to the west and the Cook Islands (1087km/675mi) to the east; Auckland is a massive 2486km/1545mi away to the south. Known as 'the Rock of Polynesia', Niue is a textbook-perfect example of a makatea, or 'raised atoll' island, formed aeons ago when coral reef was hoisted above sea level by a primeval upheaval of reef-moving proportions. At 259 sq km (100 sq mi), Niue is about the size of four Manhattan Islands strung together, making it one of the largest coral atolls in the world.  The island's limestone outcrops rise sheer out of the surrounding blue to two-tiered heights of 20m (65ft) and 65m (213ft). There are few beaches, but the spectacular subterranean caves, grottoes and swimming holes more than compensate for the lack of sand. There are also no rivers on the island, as rainfall simply seeps through the porous limestone and pours unsullied into the luminous seas - just one reason why the diving visibility is so perfect.  A priceless patch of tropical forest is preserved in the Huvalu Forest Conservation Area on Niue's east coast, dense with spectacular trees and wildflowers, and impenetrable stretches of coastal vegetation. Niue's birdlife is prolific, despite the presence of feral cats on the island, and includes parakeets, swamp hens and white-tailed terns. Rats and fruit bats are the only native mammals, and other island creatures include coconut crabs and butterflies. Swarms of striped sea snakes ( katuali) turn the offshore dive sites into something out of a horror movie, but thankfully their mouths are too small to manage more than the tiniest nibble. The island's fringing reef is also visited by tropical fish, pods of spinner dolphins and migratory humpback whales.  Niue isn't as typically tropical as a Micronesian island, for example. It enjoys humid but mild mid-year temperatures, thanks to the south-east trade winds, but you'll need wet-weather gear year-round - especially during the December-March cyclone season.  
pacific_niue_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: No visa is needed for visits of up to 30 days, but you must have 'sufficient funds' and an onward ticketHealth risks: hepatitis A & B, typhoid, polio; drinking water should be treatedTime: UTC -11 hoursElectricity: 240V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  It's a good idea to avoid the December-March cyclone season, but outside those months weather conditions are pretty stable. Average temperatures peak at around 27 C (80 F) December-March, and a mild 24 C (75 F) during the rest of the year. The best time to visit Niue is during the Constitution celebrations in October.     Events  The highlight of Niue's events calendar is the October Constitution celebrations, commemorating the island's independence and the arrival of Christianity (Peniamina Day). Handicraft displays, sporting events, singing, dancing and dining are the order of the day. Each village has an annual show day, another opportunity for song and dance. January is marked by Prayer Week and Takai Week, a kind of 'village drive-by'.   Public Holidays: January 1 - New Year's Day February 6 - Waitangi Day March/April - Easter April 25 - Anzac Day June - Queen's Birthday October 23 - Peniamina Day December 25 & 26 - Christmasback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to NiueTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
pacific_niue_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Niue's territorial waters encompass three outlying reefs: Beveridge, Antiope and Haran. Beveridge is a fabled diving spot, a mere 16-hour (300km/186mi) sail away from Niue to the southeast. Visited only by the occasional cruising yacht, the reef has a pristine 5km (3mi) stretch of whiter-than-white sand, topped by the wreck of an old tuna fishing boat lying high and dry. The lagoon is deep, open and sailable; the corals and sealife are vibrant; and the sharks are numerous, so dangle those toes with care.  
pacific_northern_mariana_islands_activities.html:  Activities  There's excellent diving and snorkelling on the islands. On Saipan, the most interesting spot is the Grotto, a natural cavern with waters 50ft (15m) deep and tunnels to the open sea. You can check out WWII wrecks in Tanapag Harbor, caves and garden eels at Obyan Beach and a huge coral head offshore from the Saipan Grand Hotel. Saipan's best snorkelling spot is Managaha Island, Tinian's is Tachogna Beach and Rota's is the Coral Gardens in Sasanhaya Bay. Rota also has good cave, tunnel and wreck dives, including dives to see the Shoun Maru, a Japanese freighter in 90ft (27m) of water.  All three islands have good hiking. On Saipan, the highlight is the Laderan Tangke Trail through the Marpi Commonwealth Forest. There's a fine trail along Kammer and Taga Beaches south of San Jose on Tinian. The views from the hills on either side of Songsong Village on Rota are short hikes.  Other ways to workout include windsurfing, popular off Micro Beach on Saipan; tennis; and a non-aerobic midget- submarine ride in the lagoon between Saipan and Managaha Islands, where you can see wrecks such as a Japanese freighter and an American B-29.  
pacific_northern_mariana_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  Other than Guam, Saipan is the most popular destination with Japanese tourists. In recent years this has made the island the fastest growing in Micronesia, with new golf courses and resorts popping up all around the island. Tourists and alien workers now outnumber the Saipanese, and the island has lost much of its Micronesian character. Still, Saipan has gentle beaches on its western and southern coasts, a rugged and rocky eastern coast, a hilly interior and dramatic cliffs on the northern coast. The island is about 14 miles (23km) long and 5 miles (8km) wide. A leisurely exploration of the island could fill all of a day.   Garapan, the largest town in the commonwealth, is booming. Leveled during WWII and resettled in the 1960s, Garapan is crammed with sushi shops, karaoke clubs and other operations that cater to Japanese tourists. If you can ignore the Japanese film crews shooting television commercials, the white sands and turquoise waters of Micro Beach are among the finest in the islands. Stretching north from the beach is American Memorial Park, which features a swamp-forest bird habitat and a picnic-table human habitat, along with memorials to the Americans who died in the US invasions of Saipan and Tinian and a one-room WWII Museum with displays of weapons, uniforms, gas masks, photos and other war paraphernalia.  Lace up your boots and hit the Laderan Tangke Trail, a short loop (2mi/3km) at the northern end of the island through the Marpi Commonwealth Forest. This well-maintained public trail leads through the sort of dense jungle not usually accessible to hikers. It also skirts the Laderan Tangke Cliff, where you can take in an ocean view, and along the way there are markers explaining the surrounding flora, fauna and geology. You might also see birds such as the rufous fantail or the bright red cardinal honeyeater.  The airport is at the southern end of the island, 8 miles (13km) south of Garapan.  
pacific_northern_mariana_islands_environment.html:  Environment  The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) is made up of 14 of the 15 Mariana Islands (the 15th is Guam, a separate US territory and the southernmost of the chain), stretching nearly 400 miles (645km) north to south. Saipan, the main island, is 1650 miles (2660km) west of Manila; 1700 miles (2730km) north of Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea; and 3720 miles (5980km) west of Honolulu, Hawaii. Guam is about 50 miles (80km) southwest of Rota, the southernmost of the Northern Marianas. The Mariana Islands mark the dividing line between the Pacific Ocean and the Philippine Sea. Just to the east of the chain, the Mariana Trench dives 38,635ft (11,775m), forming the world's greatest known ocean depth.  Saipan, the largest island, is a mere 47 sq mi (120 sq km); the smallest is Farallon de Medinilla, at less than half a square mile. (North Maug Island is smaller still, though it's usually counted together with its two neighbors as one island; all three are the tips of a partially submerged volcano.) Most of the islands are actually the tips of volcanoes, some of which are still active. Pagan, about 350 miles (565km) north of Saipan, erupted in 1984 and 1988. There are also occasional earthquakes, like the one that rocked Anatahan in 1990, measuring 7.4 on the Richter scale. Pagan's neighbor to the north, Agrihan, has the highest point in Micronesia, at 3165ft (965m). Most of the islands north of Saipan are part of the Northern Islands Sanctuary, uninhabited save for game wardens and the flora and fauna they preserve.  The coconut palm tree is the most important plant in the islands. Copra, the dried meat of the nut from which coconut oil is made, is the commonwealth's most important export and a major source of revenue for many residents. The nut also provides food and drinking liquid, while the flowers provide sap for making a wine called tuba. Rope is made from the green coconut husks, and fuel and charcoal are made from mature husks. The wood is used for lumber and carving, the fronds for thatch and baskets. The islands' other main tree is the flame tree, which has scarlet blossoms. You'll also see coleus, caladium and philodendron.  The only land mammals native to the islands are bats, though they've all but disappeared due to their popularity in Chamorro cuisine. Animals that have been introduced include dogs, cats, mice, rats, pigs, cattle, horses and goats. There are also Sambar deer on Rota and Saipan. Several lizards are native to the Marianas, such as skinks and geckoes, which stroll on walls and ceilings with suction-cup feet. Among the bird species found in the Marianas are the rufous fantail, the beautifully plumed golden honeyeater, the fairy tern and the Vanikoro swiftlet (an endangered bird). Out in the water is a wide range of hard and soft corals, anemones, sponges and many varieties of shellfish, including the giant tridacna clam. Sea cucumbers, which when dried and smoked are considered an aphrodisiac in China and South-East Asia, commonly dot the shallow waters near shore. Porpoises, sperm whales and beaked whales can also be found in the local waters.  Saipan, listed in the Guinness Book of World Records as having the world's most equable temperature, averages 81 F (27 C) all year. The rainy season is from July to October. The Marianas are directly in the path of typhoons, which tend to sweep through from August to December. Such storms have become more frequent and destructive lately, so travellers should be aware of weather conditions in the islands if they plan to visit during these months.  
pacific_northern_mariana_islands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors need visas, good for up to three months, and proof of onward travel.Health risks: Heat strokeTime: GMT/UTC plus 2 hoursElectricity: 220/240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Imperial When to Go  The best time to visit the Northern Marianas is during the dry months of December to March. That's also the high season, and prices will be higher. If you want to attend one of the commonwealth's religious festivals, check the Events section above for where and when they're held. It may be wise to avoid going during traditional Japanese holiday seasons, when most of the mid- and top-end hotels get solidly booked up. These include Christmas through the first week of January, Golden Week (the last week of April and the first week of May) and Obon (August). If you do go at one of these times, be sure to book well in advance and be prepared to stay in more obscure accommodations. It's also difficult to get flights during the Christmas season, as many far-flung islanders return home during the holidays.     Events  Most villages have an annual fiesta in honor of their patron saint. Rota and Tinian each have one fiesta, while Saipan has six: in San Vicente in early April, in San Antonio in mid-June, at Mt Carmel Cathedral in Chalan Kanoa in mid-July, in San Roque in mid-August, in Tanapag in early October and in Koblerville in late October. Tinian's fiesta is held during the last weekend in April or the first weekend in May in honor of San Jose, the island's patron saint. The largest and most popular fiesta in the Northern Marianas, however, is held on Rota on either the first or second weekend in October. The celebration, which honors San Francisco de Borja, includes a luau-like feast of Chamorro food, religious processions, music and dancing. Visitors are welcome at these annual festivals, but accommodation can be pretty hard to find while they're going on (especially during Rota's celebration).  Other than that, most events and festivals are held on Saipan. There's a half-marathon and a 10km fun run in late January. The Kintetsu Buffaloes, a pro baseball team from Japan, has it spring training during the first two weeks of February. The annual Micronesian Open Boardsailing Regatta and the Saipan Laguna Regatta are international windsurfing and Hobie Cat competitions held at Micro Beach in mid-February. Serious masochists swim, bike and run nearly 50 miles (80km) during the Tagaman Triathalon, held in mid-May.  The week-long Liberation Day Festival celebrates the American liberation of the islands and ends on 4 July, US Independence Day. Festivities include a beauty pageant, nightly entertainment, games and food booths. A fishing tournament is held in August, during the marlin season, and there's a 5 mile (8km) run up Mt Tagpochau on Thanksgiving in late November.  There's a fun run on Rota in late June and on Tinian in late September. Each island also hosts a cliff fishing competition, one on Labor Day weekend in early September (Rota) and the other in early November (Tinian).    
pacific_northern_mariana_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Rota, about halfway between Saipan and Guam, is just beginning to get an overflow of tourists from those larger islands, but it's still a slow-moving place. The main village, Songsong, still gets by without traffic lights or shopping centers. Located on the southwestern coast, Songsong stretches along a narrow peninsula that rises at its tip to the 470ft (143m) Mt Taipingot. Songsong is littered with latte stones and the San Francisco de Borja Church boasts a turn-of-the-century bell. You can hike or 4WD to a good view of the village from an overlook just to the north-east, or make your way along the white-coral sands of Tweksberry Beach and up the trail to the top of Mt Paipingot - watch out for the bees - for excellent views of the village, surrounding harbors and Sasanhaya Bay. Rota's airport is on the northeastern half of the island, about 9 miles (14km) from Songsong Village.  
pacific_palau_activities.html:  Activities  Palau is one of the world's truly spectacular scuba diving locales, with coral reefs, blue holes, WWII wrecks, hidden caves and tunnels and over 60 vertical drop-offs. It's the meeting place of three major ocean currents, which bring abundant food supplies and an enormous variety of marine life to the area. Thanks to that, the waters surrounding the Rock Islands literally teem with over 1500 varieties of reef and pelagic fish and more than four times the number of coral species than is found in the Caribbean. If you're a diver, you probably already know this, and if you've ever thought about learning, Palau is the place. Need further testimony? Palau was named the number one Underwater Wonder of the World by CEDAM International, an organisation of divers, marine scientists and conservationists. The southern end of the archipelago is particularly worthwhile.  If you're sticking close to the main tourist area, the beach fronting the Palau Pacific Resort has some of Koror's best snorkeling, with rainbows of tropical fish, platter and mushroom coral and giant tridacna clams in full view. That said, no one really comes to Palau to snorkel in Koror. The real action is in and around the Rock Islands, and it's worth whatever it takes to get yourself out there. Probably the most surreal snorkeling experience you'll ever have is waiting for you at Jellyfish Lake, a saltwater lake made famous by the National Geographic TV special Medusa. A ten-minute jungle trek inland, it pulsates with millions of harmless, transparent jellyfish, swimming en masse and following the sun.  For sun seekers, Palau's best beaches are found on the Rock Islands, Babeldaob and Peleliu, but most islands have a few lovely spots to toss down your towel. Local sportfishing catches include marlin, sailfish, tuna, mahi-mahi and wahoo. There are also tennis, running and - increasingly - kayaking possibilities on Koror, if underwater watersports aren't your bag.  
pacific_palau_attractions.html:  Attractions  The economic center and capital of Palau, Koror is home to two-thirds of the republic's population. It's a much less vibrant town than it was when the Japanese called it theirs, with a Micronesian pace and no particular penchant for hustle and bustle. If you dig deep enough, you'll still find remnants of a more traditional past, but at best it's good for a day or two of exploration. Beyond that, use Koror as a jumping-off point for trips to the Rock Islands, Peleliu, Angaur and the other islands.  On Koror Island, the Belau National Museum is a good place to firm up your understanding of the nation's culture and history. It's packed with exhibits ranging from the mounted head of a 15ft (5m) crocodile - the largest ever found on the island - to Palauan bead and shell money, intricately carved storyboards and other local artifacts and crafts. On the grounds is a beautiful wood-and-thatch bai (communal meeting center) and a few remnants of Japan's war machine.  Malakal Island, across from Koror, is home to the Micronesia Mariculture Demonstration Center, a research marine lab engaged in conservation and commercial projects. Their big claim to fame is their success in cultivating giant tridacna clams. The tropical aquariums of the visitor centre are worth a peek. There's an excellent view of the Rock Islands from nearby Malakal Hill.  
pacific_palau_environment.html:  Environment  The banana-shaped Palau Islands group - part of the western Caroline Islands - lies at the far western end of Micronesia in the Philippine Sea. The cluster is roughly 2400 miles (4000km) south of Tokyo, 1380 miles (2220km) north of Darwin, 2800 miles (4500km) southeast of Seoul, 1000 miles (1600km) southwest of Manila and 4600 miles (7400km) southwest of Honolulu.  A tightly bunched archipelago, Palau consists of the high islands of Babeldaob, Koror, Peleliu and Angaur; the low coral atolls of Kayangel and Ngeruangel; and the limestone Rock Islands, of which there are more than 200. Nearly all of the islands in the group sit inside a single barrier reef. The nation's boundaries also encompass six small, isolated islands, collectively called the South-West Islands, which extend some 370 miles (600km) to the southwest, almost as far as Indonesia.  Tropical forests blanket much of the islands, with ironwood, banyan, breadfruit, coconut and pandanus making up the bulk of the waving greenery. Mangrove forests and grassy savannas are also present. Palau's highest point, Mt Ngerchelchuus on Babeldaob Island, measures 715ft (215m) above sea level.  The region's spectacular underwater biodiversity includes over 1500 species of fish and 700 species of coral and anemone. Other noteworthy sightings include giant tridacna clams, sea turtles, manta rays, gray reef sharks, sea snakes, chamber nautiluses and dugongs (manatees). On and near the land, you'll also be impressed with the massive reptiles, including estuarine crocodiles and monitor lizards. In addition, expect to see dozens of species of birds, colonies of fruit bats (the only native land mammals) on the Rock Islands, monkeys on Angaur, a few nonvenomous snakes and small lizards and more insects than you ever thought possible. There are no poisonous land animals on any of the islands.  The Palauan government has set aside a group of its uninhabited Rock Islands - the 70 Islands - as a marine reserve, prohibiting public access so as not to disturb nesting turtles and seabirds. Otherwise, there are no national parks.  In Koror, the average daily high is 87 F (30 C) and the average daily low is 75 F (24 C). Humidity averages a sticky 80%, though it's washed down by 150in (3800mm) of rain annually. Palau's waters are always in the low 80s F (high 20s C). Typhoons are uncommon in Palau, which lies outside the typhoon belt, but when they arrive it's usually between June and December.  
pacific_palau_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All tourists may visit Palau for 30 days, visa is issued on arrival for up to 30 day stay and can be extendend and passport should be valid for 6 months further and onward tickets and documents required by entry.Health risks: Dengue fever, typhoid fever, filariasis, jellyfish, poisonous fish, coral and sea snakesTime: GMT/UTC plus 9 hoursElectricity: 115/230V, 60HzWeights & measures: Imperial When to Go  Springtime is full of festivals in Palau and can make it an interesting time to visit. February and March are Palau's non-rainy months, while June to August is the stormiest period. Typhoons tend to hit around this time when they come, which isn't often. Palau's water temperatures are in the low 80s F (high 20s C) year-round, much to divers' delight.     Events  Spring is a busy time around the islands. During the last week in April or the first week in May, the Palau Sport Fishing Association hosts their Annual Fishing Derby, attracting anglers from all over the region. The islanders' attentions are brought back to shore on 22 April for Earth Day. On 9 July, the Belau Arts Festival highlights the islands' best artists and artisans. The third week of November brings Tourism Awareness Week - an extra dose of haole consciousness - to Palau.   Public Holidays1 January - New Year's Day15 March - Youth Day5 May - Senior Citizens' Day1 June - President's Day9 July - Constitution Day4 September - Labor Day1 October - Independence Day23 November - Thanksgiving Day25 December - Christmasback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to PalauTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
pacific_palau_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Angaur is the southernmost of the Palau Islands group, and for the independent traveler looking to get off the beaten track, it has some serious South Seas charm. It's a low-key place, with only one village and just over 200 people, who are outnumbered 3-to-1 by crab-eating macaques. The monkeys descend from a pair brought over in the early 1900s to monitor air quality in the island's phosphate mines. The Germans began mining the island in 1909, and the Japanese continued the operation until WWII. Instead of their tunnels, though, you're more likely to see the green ponds that have formed in the pits, now home to a small colony of crocodiles.  Angaur's lone village overlooks its harbor on the western coast. The harbor, which is nearly enclosed, has waters so calm you'd think it was a giant swimming pool. North of town, there's an old Japanese lighthouse hidden by a jungle on a hill. It takes a sharp eye to find it, but you'll enjoy a great view from the top if you take the trouble.  There's a miniature wooden Shinto shrine located on the northwestern coast with a nice beach nearby and good snorkeling when the water's calm. On the northwestern tip of the island there's a statue of the Virgin Mary, erected to protect Angaur from stormy seas. A Buddhist memorial with markers honoring fallen Japanese soldiers is nearby, and if you look to the east you'll see a big blowhole.  On the northeastern side of the island, an eerie airplane graveyard is littered with pieces of wrecked WWII planes. You'll have to look closely into the dense jungle covering, as most of them are overgrown. Look hard enough and you'll find a Corsair with its wings intact, although the amazing root structure of the towering ironwood trees is just as interesting as the planes.  
pacific_pitcairn_islands_activities.html:  Activities  You can walk across the island in about half an hour. Although offshore swimming is not safe, a tidal pool, known as St Paul's Pool, is a favourite swimming spot despite a perilous descent to get there. The fishing around the island is excellent.  
pacific_pitcairn_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  Adamstown sits at the top of the appropriately named Hill of Difficulty, perched 120m (394ft) above the sea. Houses are either 'upside' or 'downside' of the main road. The public square is the heart of the island, and buildings around it serve as a courthouse, island magistrate's office, community hall, church, dispensary, library and post office. Among the many reminders of the island's origins are Fletcher Christian's Bounty Bible, kept in a glass case in the church. It was raffled off in 1839 but returned to the island in 1949. The Bounty's anchor, salvaged by a National Geographic team, stands outside the court house, and there's a Bounty cannon further down the road.  
pacific_pitcairn_islands_environment.html:  Environment  Pitcairn is volcanic, with steep cliffs and a rugged coastline, although the volcanoes are long gone. It lies just to the south of the Tropic of Capricorn in the South Pacific, about two thirds of the way as the albatross flies from Australia to South America. Its nearest neighbours are Easter Island and the far-flung south-eastern islands of French Polynesia, the Tuamotu and Gambier groups. The island is only 3km long by 1.5km wide (1.8mi by 0.9mi), an area you can explore easily in a couple of hours. A few outlying islands or atolls - Henderson (which is eight times larger than Pitcairn), Ducie and Oeno - complete the group.  Pitcairn was mostly forested when the Bounty crew and the Polynesians arrived, but that has largely been replaced by fruit trees and gardens now except for a small section on the western tip of the island. Locals have taken some steps toward forest regeneration, with the council establishing a plantation of miro ( Thespesia populnea), a species popular for wood carving. The only native mammal is the Polynesian rat, and the best known birds that breed on Pitcairn are the fairy tern and common noddy. A few endemic bird species, including the Henderson chicken, inhabit Henderson.  Pitcairn's climate is subtropical, with mean monthly temperatures averaging 18 C (64 F) in August (winter), to 24 C (75 F) in February (summer). July and August are the driest months and November the wettest, although the rainfall is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year (islanders are used to mud).  
pacific_pitcairn_islands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: None needed if you make a brief visit from a passing ship. If you want to stay longer you have to apply through the British Consulate General in Auckland. Allow plenty of time as it will take about six months for the application to be considered.Health risks: NoneTime: GMT/UTC minus 8.5 hoursWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  July and August are probably the best months to go, but unless you get here aboard your own yacht, your choice is limited by the timetables of the passenger ships that call in.     Events   Church on Saturdays is the most regular event on the island, and birthdays are usually good excuses for a get together and celebration. Each year on 23 January the Bounty's demise is celebrated by towing a burning model of the ship across Bounty Bay.    
pacific_pitcairn_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Henderson Island is the largest of the four islands in the Pitcairn group. It is inhospitable to humans, but bird watchers are likely to get a big kick out of a short trip. The island was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1988 owing to its rare bird life and because its phosphate deposits have never been mined (a real oddity during a phosphate-hungry century). It lies 168km (104mi) north-east of Pitcairn, and is nearly eight times larger than it. Pushed up by three undersea volcanoes - Adams, Young and Bounty - two thirds of Henderson's coast has a new coral reef. Its 15m (49ft) high cliffs are the ancient coral reef, and the fossilised corals that the island is composed of bake under the sun and make climbing difficult, as they're sharp, hot and crumbly underfoot. The interior is covered by dense thickets of brush, but since Pitcairn has largely been cleared of its miro trees, islanders make infrequent trips to Henderson to harvest the remote stands still growing there.  The only land mammals on the island are Polynesian rats, but Henderson has four endemic land birds: the flightless Henderson rail (a type of wading bird, referred to as the Henderson chicken), the striking Stephen's lorikeet, the Henderson fruit dove and the Henderson warbler. Nine seabirds breed on the island and six other species have been seen there from time to time, and green sea turtles drop by occasionally to lay eggs. During some tides there is a freshwater spring in a cave at the north of the island. Shipwreck survivors last century found human skeletons in the cave. You can reach Henderson when Pitcairners visit, or via passenger or cargo ship.  
pacific_samoa_activities.html:  Activities  At some point you'll realise that there are more things to do in Samoa than stare vacantly at waves lapping palm-fringed shores and wonder what all the working stiffs are doing. It can be an active place to be if you so choose. There are any number of beautiful swimming beaches around 'Upolu and Savai'i, and the beaches that aren't great for swimming are fabulous for snorkelling, although hiring snorkelling equipment can sometimes be difficult. Samoa has a number of first-class diving spots if you're keen to do some underwater sports. Surfing in Samoa can sometimes be tricky because of the reefs and inconsistent breaks, but the surfing fraternity is just beginning to discover the big swells that boom in off the break.  When swimming, it's important to remember that all beaches are private property, and permission should be sought from locals before going head first. Custom fees might be required - usually a small amount of money. Haggling here will only make you look bad. If you don't like the fee, go somewhere else.  The interior of the islands, the rugged coast line, the lush tropical rainforests and the volcano fields make Samoa a great place to hike. An excellent way to explore the islands is by kayak or canoe and in some cases it's the only way to get to the uninhabited islands and atolls. The other way to explore the islands is by bike. Cycling around Savai'i, in particular, is a worthwhile pastime. Fishing leases are owned by the villages so some tala need to be exchanged before fishing in any of the local areas. Game fishing is also available albeit very expensive.    Kirikiti is the Samoan version of cricket and strangers are permitted to join in as long as they can follow the less-than-Lords' rules. Games are played with a three-sided bat, an indeterminate number of players, umpires who use their whistle for any number of reasons (including just the sheer joy of being alive), and continue for an indefinite number of days, before the winner is decided by a mysterious process known only to Samoans. The only hard-and-fast rule is that the host team automatically forfeits the game if they can't supply enough food.  
pacific_samoa_attractions.html:  Attractions  Apia, on the island of 'Upolu, is the capital of Samoa and the only place in Samoa that you could call a city and really mean it. For all of its modern details, such as banks and burger outlets, it still retains the picturesque charm of its history. All the traders, beachcombers, pirates, whalers, and fallen missionaries who have washed up on the shores of Apia still seem to be present in Apia's slightly rundown air and the old pula trees shading the streets. From the centre of town, Apia's neat villages spread west along the level coastal area and climb up the gentle slopes towards the hills and into the valleys.  The clock tower in the centre of town, a memorial to WWI casualties, is a landmark for all those trying to orient themselves in the town centre. Just to the west of the clock tower is the Flea Market which has craft stalls selling everything from cheap clothing, to siapo (dyed bark sheets), to 'ava bowls and coconut-shell jewellery. A large number of churches are scattered around Apia with the largest of them being the Catholic church on the city waterfront. The Anglican church, although smaller, has the most beautiful stained-glass windows and at the Congregational Christian church are the clean-picked bones of the unfortunate Reverend John Williams.   Aggie Grey's Hotel, named after its famous and feisty owner (believed to be the inspiration for James Michener's character Bloody Mary), has fale named after movie stars that have slept there and an air of exotica. It's expensive but drinks at the bar are cheapish and the atmosphere is free. The main drag of Apia is Beach Road which follows the curve of the wide pleasant harbour. The bus station and the main market are a couple of blocks south of the city centre and the wharf lies at the eastern end of the harbour. Fagali'i Airport is a few kilometres east of Apia and can be reached by bus or taxi.  
pacific_samoa_environment.html:  Environment  The volcanic islands of Samoa lie halfway between Hawaii and New Zealand and just to the west of American Samoa. The two major islands, 'Upolu and Savai'i, make up an area slightly smaller than Rhode Island and constitute most of the dry land. 'Upolu is cigar-shaped, with the capital, Apia, sitting on its northern coast while Savai'i (a few kilometres to the west of 'Upolu and slightly larger) looks like a squashed cigar. The only other inhabited islands, Manono and Apolima, are two small blobs in the Apolimo Strait which separates 'Upolu and Savai'i. A number of tiny uninhabited islands and a few lonely atolls make up the remainder of the country.  Samoa faces a major environmental threat from deforestation. Agricultural change is the major culprit although logging has played its part in disturbing the delicate ecosystem. Marine resources are also under pressure from over-fishing, the gung-ho practice of blowing fish out of the water with explosives, and a deadly increase in the reef-wrecking crown-of-thorns starfish. Fortunately there has been a concerted effort over the last few years to develop eco-friendly industries and conserve the beauty and biological diversity of the rainforests that cover much of the uplands. These lush tropical rainforests are not only a source of food but also a large out-of-doors apothecary that contain mega-amounts of medicinal compounds. Because of their remoteness the islands have been resistant to any form of colonisation by animals and the only big game in these parts have gills and fins. The wildlife is limited to some flying foxes, a couple of Polynesian rats opting out of the rat race, and a lazy gecko or two.  Samoa is hot and humid most of the year although the edge is taken off the sweatbox conditions by the southeasterly trade winds blowing from April to October and intermittently (and welcomingly) in between. The wet season (or summer) is between November and April, and the dry season (or winter) between May and October. Samoa lies in the cyclone belt and is periodically buffeted and bruised by cyclones, especially in the months between November and April.  
pacific_samoa_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Tourist visas of 30 days are granted on arrival. You must have a valid passport and an onward ticket.Health risks: Tap water should be avoided. No vaccinations are required unless you're arriving from an area infected with yellow fever. Occasional outbreaks of dengue fever and filariasis occur.Time: GMT/UTC minus 11 hoursElectricity: 240v, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  When you're talking paradise, any time is a good time to go. As a general rule, however, you might find your Polynesian parade being rained on in December and January and your holiday smile melting in the humid months between November and April. The very best time to go is in the dry season, between May and October, when the weather is perfect and the events calendar is full. If you're a keen diver or into big-game fishing, the Polynesian Dive Fest and the Game Fishing Tournament take place in mid-August. The rising of the Palolo, one of the most fascinating natural phenomena, takes place on the coral reefs of Savai'i in October and the Samoan cultural event of the year, the Teuila Festival, takes place in September.     Events  The biggest cultural event in independent Samoa is the Teuila Festival in September, featuring choir singing, fire-knife dancing, siva (traditional dance), and fautasi (longboat) racing. A month before the Teuila Festival is the Polynesian Dive Fest which provides an opportunity for both professional and amateur divers to explore some of Samoa's best dive sites. One of the most spectacular natural phenomena is the rising of the Palolo. Palolo are bluey-green vermicelli-shaped worms that emerge from the coral reefs, sometime after midnight on the seventh day after a full moon, to mate. The first rising takes place in October and the second one around November.    
pacific_samoa_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Manono, lying in the stretch of water between 'Upolu and Savai'i, is almost entirely untouched by modern society. There are no dogs, no roads, no vehicles and no noise on this island. It's so quiet and peaceful that it makes 'Upolu look like a bustling metropolis. People live almost entirely in fale and enjoy a semi-subsistence lifestyle. Visitors are welcome on the island as long as respect is shown for the traditional way of life and an effort is made to help conserve the fragile ecosystem through environment-friendly activities.  To get to Manono island take a bus from Apia to the western end of 'Upolu and then a launch across to the island. Outrigger and canoe trips can be arranged.  
pacific_solomon_islands_activities.html:  Activities  As with many Pacific islands, the greatest attraction for visitors to the Solomon Islands is diving. A combination of spectacular coral reefs and hundreds of WWII wrecks makes scuba diving, skin diving and snorkelling all attractive options. For technical divers, the Solomons is one of the three best spots in the world, though there are still plenty of options for the beginner. The water temperatures in the island group are among the warmest in the world, and visibility is commonly as good as 30m (100 ft). Beware crossing offshore reefs, as the ocean currents can be unbeatable, and - as always - keep local property customs in mind when bringing anything to the surface with you.  Other popular outdoor activities could keep you busy for months. There's bushwalking, canoeing, mountain and volcano climbing, swimming, surfing, fishing, shell-collecting, bird-watching, caving and mountain biking, enough to keep even the most dedicated adventurer sated.  
pacific_solomon_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  On Guadalcanal there are a range of natural attractions, in addition to points of interest in the capital, Honiara. Many visitors report that their first impression of Honiara is of a dusty, uneventful town. With diving tours, cruises and WWII sightseeing outings all departing from the capital, there is a sense of bustle that may only become apparent after time spent in the villages. When the tourists have set off for their day of sightseeing, you can browse the handicraft shops, or enjoy the cafes, restaurants and bars.   Point Cruz is the local travel hub of Honiara. Reputedly the point where Spanish explorer Menda a raised a cross, it is now the place where copra boats and passenger ferries load and unload passengers, and is alway busy and colourful. Also of interest are the Parliament, National Museum and Cultural Centre, Botanical Gardens, the nearby Water Pump Village and the colourful, vibrant Chinatown.  
pacific_solomon_islands_environment.html:  Environment  Just to the east of Papua New Guinea in the South Pacific are the 992 islands that make up the Solomons. The third-largest archipelago in the region, the Solomons are made up of mountainous islands covered in tropical rainforests, entirely clear-felled islands and many low-lying coral atols. In 1997 there were an estimated 430,000 inhabitants, occupying about a third of the islands. While the country's biggest export, timber, has left over 10% of the landmass bare, the government has introduced a 'reforestation levy' on timber harvests. Although to date little of this revenue has been spent on actual reforestation, landowners are beginning to realise that bulldozing the rainforests isn't always the best way to use the local environment.  In addition to the blanket of rainforests, the Solomons also boasts coconut trees, scrubland and mangroves. Land mammals are mostly small and innocuous (though watch out for the ferocious wild pigs and the rats that are large enough to teach meddlesome cats a lesson). Reptiles thrive and seas teem: there are lizards, snakes, turtles and crocodiles, as well as stunning fish, including sharks, and even dugongs and whales. The Solomons have over 4500 plant species, including about 230 varieties of orchid. Many of the plants and trees are used by locals for building, food, medicine and clothing, but everyone avoids the large, purple-veined nalato leaf: it causes inflamation and itching.  While average temperatures on the tropical Solomon Islands are constant throughout the year at a shade over 30 C (86 F), rainfall varies enormously, peaking between January and April, the monsoon season. This is also the time you'll most likely encounter the annual cyclone or two. Humidity during this season commonly hits a stifling 90%, but in the afternoons and for the bulk of the year, the islands are fanned by mild south-easterly trade winds.  
pacific_solomon_islands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: In theory, visitors planning to stay less than three months don't require entry visas. In practice, seek advice from your nearest Solomon embassy if you are now, or have ever been, a member of a communist country, or if you're from the Indian subcontinent, Nauru or Kiribati. Visitor's permits can be extended for a further three months for a fee.Health: It's tropical, so there's malaria. In addition, watch out for tuberculosis and gastric troubles. Water purity cannot be relied on, and the charming hookworm is endemic on the coast and in the countryside. Anyone arriving from central Africa or northern South America will require a vaccination certificate against yellow fever.Time: GMT/UTC + 11 hours.Electricity: 230/240V 50 Hz.Weights & measures: Officially metric, but expect remnants of the imperial system When to Go  The weather, in terms of heat, humidity and cyclones, is at its most hospitable in the second half of the year. Light breezes and calm waters should be the order of the day at this time. Luckily, June to August is a time of public holidays and festivals as well. Seven of the country's nine provinces have their annual holiday at this time, and the Queen's Birthday and Independence Day - the best times to see traditional dancing - are in June and July respectively.     Events  If you're based in or moving through Honiara, there's a couple of big celebration days that are well worth checking out. Whit Monday falls on the eighth Monday after Easter and features a parade of war veterans and general festivities. The second Friday of June is the Queen's Birthday holiday. Again there is a march - this time it's the police - which is followed by sporting events and custom dancing. July 7 is Independence Day, the biggest holiday on the calendar. Once again, it's a time for parades (the military get the nod here), sports and dancing.  Each province has its own Provincial Holiday, and this provides another oportunity for visitors to see traditional dances and ceremonies. March in Santa Catalina sees the yam-increase festival, while at the end of May mock clan wars and week-long marriage ceremonies take place in a celebration called Wogasia.    
pacific_solomon_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  In the isolated easternmost province of Temotu you can visit islands virtually unaffected by modern life, see active volcanos, and witness trade using Red-feather money; one of the world's most unusual currencies.  
pacific_tahiti_and_french_polynesia_activities.html:  Activities  French Polynesia has some beautiful beaches, lagoons and open ocean, and it's the water-based activities most visitors come for. The region is a mecca for divers who come to see the rich and abundant marine life in warm pristine waters and for some unusual diving environments. The passes and lagoon of Rangiroa in the Tuamotus are a justly famous diving location. Those who prefer to float can strap on a snorkel and mask and experience the vibrant and giddy underworld without leaving the water's surface.  Tahiti is the birth place of surfing and there are popular breaks at Papenoo, Punaauia, and Paea. Other islands, particularly Huahine and Moorea, offer surfers clean consistent swell in warm uncrowded waters. The October-to-March period brings swells from the north and between April and September southerly winds bring heavy swells up from the Antarctic region.   Walkers and climbers will enjoy the high islands throughout the region and 4WD enthusiasts can hire vehicles in Papeete and other larger towns. Equestrian types can massage saddle-sores after a day's ride across the mountains and plateaus of many of the islands, and in the Marquesas horse riding is still the way a lot of local people get about. There are opportunities for hang-gliders and fans of parapente around the Tahitian island and Papeete has clubs and facilities for enthusiasts.  
pacific_tahiti_and_french_polynesia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Papeete has something of an image problem. French Polynesia's busy port capital does have heavy rush-hour traffic and ugly concrete developments, but it also has a beautiful waterfront where yachts, ferries and cargo boats come and go, and a thriving market full of South Pacific atmosphere. There are abundant cafes, mobile snack vans and eateries along this strip and it's a lovely place to mill about and soak up the scene. Legacies of the region's maritime history are all over the place and the ghosts of Bougainville and Cook have an omnipresence along Papeete's coast.  The market, Marche du Papeete, is a colourful and vibrant place, and on Sunday morning it's at its busiest. The market covers a whole city block just back from the waterfront. The original buildings were erected in 1847, but after a series of expansions and redevelopments the market was destroyed by shelling from German cruisers during WWI. It has been rebuilt twice since then and is now an airy two-storey structure with fruit, vegetables, meat and fish downstairs, and clothes and arts & crafts upstairs.  A few kilometres inland of Papeete is the famous Bain Loti (Loti's Bath or Pool). Pierre Loti's 1880 novel The Marriage of Loti had the hero and the beautiful Rarahu meet at this pool in the verdant surrounds of the Fautaua River. It's no longer the bucolic scene of Pierre Loti's days but it's still a pleasant place and a favourite swimming spot for locals, and Pierre's bust oversees all. Tahiti's lush and rugged interior offers endless possibilities for walkers and mountain climbers, from the leisurely to the very strenuous, and reveals a landscape of soaring peaks that rise to Mt Orohena at 2241m. There are also plateaus, waterfalls, lava tubes and Polynesian relics - including the ruined temples, tikis and petroglyphs of Marae Arahurahu.  
pacific_tahiti_and_french_polynesia_environment.html:  Environment  The 118 islands of French Polynesia are specks in the vast South Pacific Ocean. They are divided into five groups: the Society Islands (which include Tahiti), the Tuamotus, the Marquesas, the Australs and the Gambiers. Only six of the islands are larger than 100 sq km, and the northernmost island, Hatutu, is more than 2000km from the southernmost island, Rapa. The nearest continental land masses are Australia, 5200km to the west, and South America, 6000km to the east. The territory's nearest Pacific neighbour is the Cook Islands, to the west.  The islands are a mixture of volcanic high islands and coral atolls. The high islands have rich, fertile soil and support a much wider diversity of vegetation than the atolls. Magnificent Tahitian tiare flowers grow abundantly on the high islands and these are woven into leis (flowers necklaces) or worn in the hair. Many introduced flora species exist in the region, including hibiscus and bougainvillea. Most of the land-based creatures were introduced and include wild pigs and fowl, semi-domesticated goats in the Marquesas, and sheep on Tahiti, the Australs and the Marquesas. Small geckos abound and there are large centipedes that have a decent sting. French Polynesia has around 100 species of birds, including terns, petrels, noddies and frigatebirds. The abundance and diversity of marine life is immediately obvious when you poke you head underwater.  French Polynesia's tropical climate has two distinct seasons. The wet season, between November and April, has average temperatures around 27 -30 C with high humidity, ample rain (75% of the annual rainfall) and brief, violent storms. The dry season, between May and October, has little rain, drier air and slightly cooler temperatures. There are prevailing winds which can blow with a force of 40 to 60km/h. The maraamu is a south-easterly that is common in the dry season, and the toerau is a north-north-easterly that blows occasionally in the wet season.  
pacific_tahiti_and_french_polynesia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Only French citizens can enter French Polynesia without a passport and the visa requirements are much the same as for France itself. Western European and Scandinavian citizens are allowed to stay for up to three months without a visa. Citizens of Canada, the USA, Japan, Singapore and New Zealand can stay up to one month without a visa, but all other visitors need a visa to enter.Health risks: NoneTime: GMT/UTC minus 10 hoursElectricity: 220V, 60 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The month-long Heiva i Tahiti festivities in July are to Tahiti what Carnaval is to Brazil and people come in droves to be part of them. The festival occurs in the drier and cooler June-through-October period which is, perhaps, the best time to visit the territory. Visitors during this period should, however, take into account the maraamu tradewinds which can bring unstable weather from the south between June and August. The weather gets warmer and more humid between November and the end of May. The Northern Hemisphere holiday periods - Christmas to the beginning of January, late February/early March, Easter, early May and the long northern-summer holiday in July-August - are busy times and flights can be hard to get.     Events  The Moorea Marathon is held in early February, and there's a re-enactment of the arrival of the first London Missionary Society missionaries at Point Venus in Papeete on 5 March with celebrations in Tahiti's and Moorea's Protestant churches. Tahitians love beauty contests and there are events organised for both men and women throughout most of the year, and these culminate in the prestigious Miss Heiva i Tahiti contest in July. The month-long Heiva i Tahiti festival also features music, dancing, sporting competitions and arts & crafts displays. French Bastille Day, 14 July, falls in the middle of this festival and is the highlight. A four-day golf tournament is held on Tahiti in late June and early July, the Heiva No Te Pahu Nui O Tahaa stone-fishing festival takes place on Tahaa during the last week of October and there's a surfing contest off Tahiti in September.  However, what draws the whole of French Polynesia to a standstill is a canoe race. The Hawaiki Nui canoe race is a three-day, four-island, 116km event, held in early November, that pits about 60 six-man teams from all over the territory and abroad against each other. Burly Polynesian men, often bedecked in traditional tattoos, begin from the island of Huahine and cross 44.5km of open ocean to Raiatea. Day two is a 20km sprint within the lagoon between the twin islands of Raiatea and Tahaa, and day three is a mammoth 52km open-ocean crossing to the island of Bora Bora. The vessels arrive to the rhythm of drummers and cheering supporters, and TV camera crews wade out to get the footage that will be broadcast across the territory on the evening news. In 1994 a German team of Olympic kayakers entered the race and their best result was 18th on the first leg.    
pacific_tahiti_and_french_polynesia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The most remote island in the Marquesas also has the distinction of being the wettest, lushest and most traditional of the islands in the group. It has no landing strip and is rarely visited by boats, but this makes for a travel experience into Polynesia as it once was. Thor Heyerdahl, of the famous Kon Tiki expeditions, spent a year and a half living on Fatu Hiva which provided the basis for his book Fatu Hiva, the Return to Nature. Mangoes, bananas, oranges and lemons thrive on the slopes of the island thanks to the plentiful rainfall. The island is home to some of the finest artisans in the Marquesas.  
pacific_tokelau_activities.html:  Activities  Other than lazing under a palm tree, snorkelling all those coral reefs rimming the atolls or persuading an accommodating local to take you fishing, there's not a lot to do in Tokelau. Surprise! All three atolls have community discos every now and then, as well as weekly bingo, and you shouldn't miss watching a game of  kilikiti - better yet, as more seems to be the merrier, join in. You'll get a confirmed six if you can hit the ball into the water with the wonky, three-sided 'bat'. If you decide to go diving in the lagoons, take extreme care as there are no lifesavers to rescue you, and the nearest decompression chamber is in Fiji. Ask the locals for advice about the safest diving spots.  
pacific_tokelau_attractions.html:  Attractions  Dubbed Duke of York Island by its first European visitor, British commodore John Byron, Atafu is the smallest and northernmost of Tokelau's three atolls. Its 42 islets measure a grand total of 3.5 sq km (1.3 sq mi), and the tiny lagoon is 17 sq km (6.5 sq mi); the population is around 500. Protestant Atafu is the more traditional of the three atolls, with rationed alcohol sales and a greater reliance on old-style dugout canoes. The island also has more traditional houses, largely due to its prized supply of building wood, kanava; these houses are increasingly being replaced by cyclone-proof concrete and corrugated-roofed housing.  
pacific_tokelau_environment.html:  Environment  Tokelau is made up of three classic atolls - Atafu, Fakaofo and Nukunonu - each a necklace of tiny islets surrounding a central lagoon. The islets are the built-up remains of coral reefs which once encircled submarine volcanoes, now submerged by the lagoon. Roughly speaking, Tokelau lies midway between New Zealand and Hawaii. Its nearest neighbour is Samoa, 480km (300mi) away to the south. The three atolls themselves are by no means close neighbours: Atafu and Nukunonu are separated by 92km (57mi) of lonely South Pacific Ocean, and it's another 64km (40mi) south-east to Fakaofo.  The low-lying islands measure only 5m (16ft) at their highest point, and 200m (656ft) at their widest. As with all coral atolls, the soil is thin, infertile and poorly drained. Each atoll has its own special blessing: fresh water is plentiful on Fakaofo, Nukunonu has plenty of pandanus trees (used for weaving) and Atafu has stands of kanava trees (an excellent building material). Wildlife is limited to rats, lizards, mosquitoes and bugs, visiting seabirds, and domesticated pigs and poultry.  Tokelau's tropical climate brings average temperatures of 28 C (80 F) year round and heavy but irregular rainfall, often up to 80mm (3.5in) per day. Tropical storms are becoming more frequent, and cyclones have caused extensive damage in recent years. Global warming is a major concern for low-lying Tokelau: there's a very real risk that the atolls could be uninhabitable by the end of the 21st century.  
pacific_tokelau_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visitor permits are issued by the Tokelau Apia Liaison Office in Samoa (NZ$20 one-month stay); consent to visit must be given by the village taupulega, accommodation must be arranged prior to departure and a return ticket to Samoa must be bookedHealth risks: currently there are no serious health risks, but dengue fever, hepatitis A and typhoid fever can occur. There's a hospital on each atoll, but specialist medical supplies and care are days away in Apia.Time: UTC -11 hoursElectricity: 240V, 50 HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 10-20 tourists annually When to Go  The best time to visit Tokelau is April to October, when the rain eases off a little and the easterly trade winds bring some relief from the heat.     Events  Tokelau observes New Zealand's public holidays (notably New Year's Day, Waitangi Day on 6 February, Anzac Day on 25 April, the Queen's Birthday in June and Labour Day in October), as well as the standard holidays of the Christian calendar. Two village holidays are designated by the three island councils annually.    
pacific_tonga_activities.html:  Activities   Caving, both on land and underwater, is spectacular and easily accessible. Tongatapu has one cave, Vava'u has several and 'Eua has dozens of limestone caves. Exploring underwater caves is best on Ha'apai, which has a deep cave full of flashlight fish. With water temperatures around a pleasant 23 C to 30 C (73 F to 86 F) snorkelling, surfing, swimming and diving are great in any of the major island groups. Volcanoes, shipwrecks, canyons, coral reefs, a stunning variety of reef fish and visibility that in places reaches 70m (230ft) make the snorkelling and diving spectacular, and the surfing is as good at any time of year as it gets anywhere in the world. The surf's best on Ha'apai and Vava'u, and the best surfing on Tongatapu is at Ha'atafu Beach.   Kayaking is increasing in popularity, and Tonga offers a wide scope for challenging sea kayaking. The Vava'u group offers clear, calm and sheltered waters, and the Ha'apai group has a little more open sea. The whale-watching season is from June to November on Tongatapu and Ha'apai, and July to November on Vava'u. On trips to watch whales, underwater microphones catch whale songs for you to hear. Game-fishing charters are showing up all over Tonga, and you can also indulge in the less competitive form with a good book, a deserted beach and a long line.  
pacific_tonga_attractions.html:  Attractions  Sitting on a promontory facing the Pacific and backing onto the Fanga'uta Lagoon, Nuku'alofa ('Abode of Love') is gradually swallowing up surrounding wetlands and agricultural land, and shanty towns are springing up on the outskirts. You won't exactly get caught in traffic jams in the capital, but the 'pumpkin-led boom' of recent years has put a few more cars on the streets. Most of the town's main features are found within a compact rectangle.  The Royal Palace on the waterfront is arguably the most impressive building in town. The white Victorian timber building was prefabricated in New Zealand in 1867 and has become a symbol of Tonga to the world, although it is closed to visitors. On the slopes of Mt Zion, just behind the palace, is the Sia Ko Veiongo, the 'royal estate', which, over its 600 year history, has been sacked repeatedly. Next to the palace is the Pangao Si'i, a public park used for kava ceremonies, feasts and Saturday sporting events. The Royal Tombs or Mala'ekula, contain the graves of all the Tongan sovereigns since 1893, as well as their spouses and close relatives. The town common contains the Tongan War Memorial, commemorating those killed in both world wars.  Many travellers tend to join Tongans at church on Sundays because everything else is closed, and the churches in town are impressive; you can't miss the Basilica of St Anthony of Padua opposite the royal tombs, where inside the stations of the cross are carved of coconut wood inlaid with mother of pearl. The Centenary Chapel behind Mt Zion accommodates more than 2000 people, and St Mary's Cathedral is worth visiting for its beautiful vaulted ceiling, stained glass and rose gardens. Yellow Pier is a great snorkelling site close to town, although it's not as spectacular as the reefs further out. If you're into markets you shouldn't miss Talamahu Market, which sells the best of Tonga's agricultural produce - it will give you a crash course in tropical fruits and vegetables. Go early to the Saturday morning flea market for the best selection of junk, treasure and collectables.  While you can get reasonable accommodation and eat well in the city centre, you shouldn't forget the resorts around Tongatapu and on off shore islands. You have the option of staying in an apartment or townhouse with its own kitchen, bathroom, bedrooms and lounge, and they can be rented short or long term. The abode of love has plenty of good restaurants catering to all budgets and tastes, and you can visit one of the waterfront bars to kick off the evening. The Tongan National Centre, the International Dateline Hotel and the Good Samaritan Inn all put on great nights with island buffets and traditional music and dance, and if you haven't tasted the local kava (the stuff that dreams are made of) already, these places give you the chance to get into it (or out of it).  
pacific_tonga_environment.html:  Environment  The 171 extraordinarily diverse islands of the Tongan archipelago are scattered over an area in the central Pacific Ocean nearly as big as Japan. The dry land, however, would fit easily into New York City with room to fling in a few extra coral reefs. Tonga's nearest neighbours are Samoa to the north, Fiji to the northwest and New Caledonia, more then 1000km (600mi) west. Despite the widely scattergunned placement of the islands, Tongan culture is remarkably homogenous. The four main island groups - Tongatapu, He'apai, Vava'u and the Niuas lie in two parallel lines just east of the Lau Basin, where the sea floor is opening up, causing some unsteady ground at times on the islands. Fewer than 40 islands are inhabited, but most of the land has been converted to plantations or towns. Large areas of rainforest and bushland do remain on the Niuas, 'Eua and many of the volcanic islands.  Tonga has seven officially protected areas, including five national marine parks and reserves, one national historic park, and the 'Eua National Park. Two species of iguana call Tonga home, as do several colonies of flying fox, large fruit bats that enjoy sacred status and protection on the islands. Tonga supports surprisingly few species of birds, although it does harbour a few interesting ones like the blue-crowned lorikeet, the red shining parrot and the incubator bird - that leaves its eggs to hatch warmed by volcanic mud - found on Niuafo'ou. The main land attractions are the flowering plants, such as frangipani, several species of native hibiscus and the heilala, a small, sweet smelling red flower that has a festival in its honour. More than 100 species of tropical fish live in the reefs around the islands, where beautiful hard and soft corals and black coral grow in abundance.  Tonga is far enough away from the equator to enjoy a more comfortable climate than the Samoas or the Solomons, and winter (July to September) temperatures are pleasantly cool at 17 C to 22 C (62 F to 71 F), although rainstorms and strong southerlies can cause decidedly wintry weather. From December to April, the southern summer, temperatures rise to 25 C to 33 C (77 F to 91 F), although nights can still be cool. A light breeze often tempers the humidity, and the islands receive most of their annual rainfall late in the season. The archipelago lies squarely in the South Pacific's cyclone/typhoon belt, with the greatest possibility for wild weather from January to March. The big cyclones come around roughly every 20 years, with a medium one every three to four years.  
pacific_tonga_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: You only need a valid passport and an onward ticket to be granted a visa for three or four weeks upon arrival.Health risks: There is some chance of hepatitis or bacterial infection.Time: GMT/UTC plus 13 hoursElectricity: 240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric, except for land, which is measured in acres. When to Go  May to October is the best time to visit. Summer, from November to April, is the hurricane season and can be hot, humid and wet. Large numbers of Tongans living abroad also return home in December and January, and if you're planning to be there then you'll need to make reservations well in advance.     Events  On 4 July Tongans celebrate King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV's birthday with the Heilala Festival, which becomes a week-long bash featuring parades and processions, music festivals and competitions. It coincides with the flowering of the heilala, Tonga's national flower. The torch-lighting ceremony, Tupakapakanava, coincides with this festival. People carrying flaming torches of dry reeds line the northern coastline of Tongatapu, and the Tongans liken the festival to Guy Fawkes Day in the UK or the USA's 4 July fireworks. On Vava'u, the Crown Prince's birthday in early May kicks off a week of partying with the Vava'u Festival. Also in May is the week-long Red Cross Festival, which is followed by the Red Cross Grand Ball.  In early June the Ha'apai group celebrates the three-day Ha'apai Festival, coinciding with Emancipation Day festivities. In a nation as Christian as Tonga, locals take Easter seriously, and celebrate an Easter Festival, with youth choirs, passion plays, concerts and cultural performances. All the major island groups host agricultural fairs from late August to October, and they are presided over by the king. Late September sees the Tonga International Billfish Tournament celebrated, attracting local and international anglers to Vava'u. Another international competition is the Miss Galaxy Pageant in Nuku'alofa. The contestants are all men, or fakaleiti, the local version of transvestites.    
pacific_tonga_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Many Tongans from the more southerly islands know more about New Zealand or England than the Niuas, the farthest flung of Tonga's island groups. Tradition remains strong on the three islands, and the trip up is well worth it for the traveller, if not for the hypnotically beautiful beaches then for the friendly people who see so few tourists. You can climb the perfect volcanic cone of Tafahi, hike around the barren lava flows, swim in the beautiful Vai Lahi Lake on Niuafo'ou, and swim in the western waterways. Hihio is the sleepy capital of Niuatoputapu, and a plane from Tongatapu or Vava'u is the best way to get there. You must fly to Niuafo'ou as it has no safe anchorage, (from Tongatapu via Vava'u). You can reach Tafahi by boat from Niuatoputapu.  
pacific_tuvalu_activities.html:  Activities  If you're prepared to bring your own gear and travel long distances by unreliable transport methods, Tuvalu hosts many of the same activities popular on islands right across the Pacific, with the exception of bushwalking (not enough bush). Tuvalu is made almost entirely of coral, so diving and snorkeling will be rewarding experiences, though with coral reefs, there are always the dual dangers of cutting yourself if you get too close and being caught in strong ocean currents if you stray too far. Always ask locals about hazards particular to each area. Walking is also possible, however the size of the islands will often relegate a hike to mere stroll status.  Although there is one combined tennis/ basketball/ volleyball court, the most popular activity for visitors to Tuvalu is inactivity. With nothing in the way of organised tourist traps, this is about as far from Club Med as you will find in the Pacific. Walk around. Sit under a palm tree.  
pacific_tuvalu_attractions.html:  Attractions  With a population of over 4000, the Tuvaluan capital, Funafuti, remains a pretty low-key town. With no heavy industry and only two manufacturing facilities (textiles and soap), the air remains pure and the pace of life measured. Funafuti is an administrative centre, hosting a cluster of government buildings near the airport (the landing strip of which is also the town's main soccer pitch) and a church.Ten minutes walk north of the centre is the island's main village, while a further ten minutes on is the deep water wharf. The huge lagoon is a visual highlight, but tread carefully, as the lagoon beach doubles as a public toilet for some locals. With a population density of 1454 people per sq km, the island is comparatively crowded. If you've got no access to a private yacht and no patience to wait for other island-hopping options you can charter a boat to Funafala Island or one of the other uninhabited islets at the south end of the lagoon for a more unspoilt scene.  
pacific_tuvalu_environment.html:  Environment  Tuvalu is a scattered group of nine tiny atolls in the western Pacific Ocean. The total land area of the densely populated group is only 26 sq km (10 sq mi), however the islands occupy 1.3 million sq km (500,000 sq mi) of ocean between Kiribati and the Samoas. Five of the islands are low-lying coral atolls; the highest point on these (and the highest point in Tuvalu) is just 4.6m (15ft) above sea level. The remaining four islands are pinnacles of land that peak out of the ocean, rising up from the sea bed. On the islands there are many reefs and salt-water ponds (increasing at a worrying rate as the ocean levels rise), while the island of Nanumea hosts a fresh-water pond, rare for an atoll.  Made mostly of eroded coral, Tuvalu has poor soil, no streams or rivers, and few remaining outcrops of forest undergrowth. Coconut palms grow in abundance across all the islands, but otherwise there is only enough soil to support subsistence agriculture for about three-quarters of the population. All other food needs to be imported. Water needs are met by catchment and storage facilities as the porous, low-lying atolls are unable to hold ground water. The only land animals are the Polynesian rat, chickens, dogs and pigs - all introduced species.  The climate is tropical, with an average temperature of 30 C (87 F) and little seasonal variation. The wet season is between October and March, and boy, is it wet! 350cm (12ft) of rain falls in a normal year. Cyclone (hurricane) activity is rare; there have been only four severe hits this century (but all since 1972). So fragile is the Tuvaluan landmass that cyclones Gavin and Hina eroded an estimated 7% of the total surface area in 1997. Independent sailors are best advised to steer clear or settle in during the wet season.  
pacific_tuvalu_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: No visa is required; a visitor permit will be issued on arrival. The permit should be valid for one month, providing you have sufficient funds, proof of accomodation, and an onward ticket. The permit may be extended to a maximum of three months.Health risks: Water is both in short supply and undrinkable in its untreated state. At the very least it should be boiled for a couple of minutes. The mozzies are non-malarial. If you're arriving from a yellow fever-infected area you will require a vaccination certificate. Hepatitis A, B, dengue fever and filariasis are all present, but the main problem will be the tendency for cuts and abrasions (common due to abundant coral) to turn septic. Pack antiseptic cream.Time: GMT/UTC + 12 hours.Electricity: 220 to 240V 60 Hz (Funafuti only)Weights & measures: Metric When to Go  The best time to enjoy the islands of Tuvalu is between May and September, when the easterly trade winds - and with them the chances of fine weather - spring up. The risk of tropical cyclones is reduced at this time, too.     Events  Being an associate member of the Commonwealth, Tuvaluans celebrate the Queen's Birthday, the Prince Of Wales' Birthday and Commonwealth Day. Being staunchly Christian, the nation also holds ceremonies and celebrations on the major Christian festivals of Easter and Christmas. These public holidays are often celebrated at a family and village level with traditional songs and dancing.  The biggest celebrations of the year, however, are reserved for October 1 and 2. Tuvalu Day (or days) commemorates the attainment of independence from the colonising British on 1 October 1978. Traditional celebrations with music and dance occur in all villages. In keeping with Polynesian tradition, Tuvalu also celebrates a National Children's Day on 3 August. On this day, children lead the village in celebrations and are treated to a traditional meal.    
pacific_tuvalu_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The most northerly and most populous of the outer islands, Nanumea was occupied by US forces during WWII. Evidence of their presence exists in the wrecks of several US landing craft and a B-24 bomber. With the consent of the pastor, you may also climb the tall German Gothic-style tower for a wonderful view of the atoll. Nanumea is 475km (295mi) from Funafuti, and accessible only by sea.  
pacific_vanuatu_activities.html:  Activities  Vanuatu is a mecca for diving enthusiasts and the underwater action is virtually unparalleled in the world. Not only does the sea offer 30m (100ft) visibility (up to 50m (165ft) depending on conditions), but the seabed is continually surprising and spectacular, with coral reefs and all the bright, sprightly marine creatures that go with them. Highlights include The Cathedral, a vast cavern shot through with spectacular shafts of light from above; Blacksands Reef and Caves, inhabited by myriad small rays; Mele Reef; and more civilian and WWII shipwrecks than you'd care to wave a flipper at.  Other watery activities such as windsurfing, water-skiing, snorkelling and even swimming come into their own (although sharks have been known to spoil the fun in some areas). You can try sport fishing for the big ones, as well as the other sort of fishing where you get to eat the catch. Trekking through cloud forest, rainforest and the mountainous terrain of Santo, Gaua, Ambrym and Erromango is world-class. Learn to ride a horse at one of the horse riding schools or join in the annual picnic horse race day. Port Vila has four excellent golf courses to wind down after a night of dancing or throwing your money away at the casino, and you can console yourself by drinking kava at a local kava bar or nakamal, and realise that the tangible world is just a passing dream.  
pacific_vanuatu_attractions.html:  Attractions  Efate is the island Cook called Sandwich, after Lord Sandwich, and is home to Port Vila and most of the tour operators. An ideal base to plan trips to the outer isles, Port Vila curves around Vila Bay and creeps up its steep hillsides. The central commercial district falls neatly into a small block - about 1km by 250m (0.5mi by 820ft) - bounded by the harbour on one side and steep hills on the other. Kumul Highway is the main drag and the best thoroughfare from which to explore town. It winds around the waterfront and leads you past major landmarks such as the Cultural Centre, the Constitution Building, the GPO, the fish market and the covered market.  The French Quarter ( Quartier Fran ais) lies just to the north of central Vila and boasts a handful of colonial-style houses with French louvred windows. Rue Emile Mercet affords excellent views over the harbour. Chinatown is sometimes called Hongkong Street and lies mostly around rue Carnot in central Vila. Not far from the upmarket inner suburb of Nambatu are the waterfront markets, with the best prices in town for food, no haggling over prices and no hustling if you don't want to buy.  The cemetery in Anabrou is worth a visit if you're interested in old bones and wildly decorated Chinese and Vietnamese tombstones. It also gives you an insight into the background of Vila's population. Independence Park, up the hill from the Post Office, is where the Condominium was proclaimed in 1906. It's also where petty British officials rubbernecked during Condominium rule to check that the Tricolor fluttering in the breeze at the former French Residency wasn't upstaging them by flying any higher than the Union Jack. While the French and Chinese quarters are in town, the area around the park is like a corner of a foreign field forever England, with a village green, quaint little houses and an English church. During the dry season you'll even hear the thwack of a cricket ball on drowsy Saturday afternoons.  Vila is not the cheapest place to stay in Vanuatu, and while the best accommodation there rivals the best anywhere in the world, so do the prices. You can console yourself that Vila offers some of the best and most varied dining in the Pacific. Apart from a few hostels, backpackers' lodges and church-owned accommodation, most of the rooms are in the middle to top end of the price range and better suit business travellers and big dollar tourists than budget travellers. Although camping is not generally encouraged, you can pitch a tent in the grounds of the Vanuatu National Women's Council Guesthouse in Anabrou, which also offers rooms at a reasonable rate. There are several backpackers' lodges and cheaper guesthouses scattered within a short walk of the city centre.  
pacific_vanuatu_environment.html:  Environment  The 80 or so habitable islands of Vanuatu straddle the Pacific Ring of Fire, giving residents a roller coaster ride of volcanic activity and tremors as well as occasional tsunamis. On some islands the land erupts out of the seabed to rise nearly 2000m (6560ft) above sea level, on others coral atolls and rocky islets lie only a few metres above it. Not quite the size of Northern Ireland, the dry land is scattered over an area slightly larger than Germany, France and Switzerland combined. Port Vila is 1900km (1180mi) north-east of Brisbane, Australia, and Vanuatu's nearer neighbours are all island states: Fiji to the east, the Solomon Islands to the north and a splash of haute co ture pacifique marks New Caledonia to the southwest.  Unlike the nearby Solomons, vast tracts of Vanuatu's forests have been preserved from commercial logging, mainly because the terrain is too rough and the grades too steep to make it economically viable. The forest is typical of the western Pacific, and includes giant banyan trees and kauri pines as well as isolated stands of sandalwood that survived the 19th century obsession for it. Some of the more mountainous islands are cloaked in almost impenetrable forest from the shoreline to the highest peaks, and over 150 plant species of the more than 1000 so far identified are endemic. Coconut trees and plantations are common throughout the archipelago.  The South-East Trade Winds that discouraged early attempts at European colonisation prevail over the islands and are responsible for much of their weather. The wet season falls from November to April and dumps more than 4m (more than 13ft) of rain annually in some places. Many tour groups from Australia go for their Christmas holidays during the wet season, but the cool, evening sea breezes generally save them from taking a long walk off a short pier. During the dry season, Vanuatu enjoys sunny days and mild, spring-like weather. The cyclone season is December to March, with possibilities for wild weather a few months on either side of that. The winds are generally more unruly during the wet season than the dry, and cyclones can hit any island.  
pacific_vanuatu_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Nationals of Commonwealth countries, the EU, Fiji, Japan, Norway, the Philippines, South Korea, South Africa, Switzerland and the USA do not require visas for stays of up to 30 days.Health risks: Tap water in urban areas is generally safe but not in rural areas. Visitors to the outer islands should take precautions for malaria. No vaccinations required.Time: GMT/UTC + 11 hours.Electricity: 220 to 240V 50 Hz.Weights & measures: Metric When to Go  The southern winter is the best time, from April to October. Expect clear, warm days with an average temperature of 23 C (73 F). Summer is the wet season and brings warmer weather but it can be unpleasantly steamy, with the heaviest rains in January. From April to June the islanders on Pentecost practise land diving to guarantee their yam harvest and from August to November the spectacular clan alliance dance, or Toka, is held on Tanna (check with the tourist office for the current dates).     Events  From April to June land diving takes place on southern Pentecost Island. Men dive off bush timber platforms with flexible vines tied to their ankles in this important religious and fertility rite. The divers' hair scrapes the earth at high speed to fertilise it and ensure a successful yam harvest. The government was compelled to cancel all land diving for a year in 1995 to allow the ceremony's cultural worth to be re-established after it had become swamped by tourists.  On Tanna, Jon Frum Day is celebrated in February and includes dancing, parades and festivals. The Jon Frum cult appeared this century, when ni-Vanuatu believed the mythical Jon Frum would deliver them from Europeans in general and missionaries in particular. The movement was given a boost by the arrival of over 100,000 American service personnel during the war. The Americans dazzled the ni-Vanuatu with their refrigerators, trucks, canned food, cigarettes and other luxuries, which convinced the Tannese that the Europeans were purposely withholding these goodies from them. July sees the celebration of the mid-winter horse racing carnival in Port Vila, and the Toka, a significant clan alliance dance, is celebrated on Tanna for three days between August and November.    
pacific_vanuatu_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  When the South-East Trade Winds are blowing in the far north of the archipelago the surf is up in the Torres Islands, and even if it's not, the brilliant white beaches are still worth a laze. Only four of the six main islands are populated, and the Polynesian influence is at its strongest here. They get so few visitors this way that the shops are not geared up to tourists, so you'd be wise to bring some of your own supplies. Coconut crabs, elsewhere a delicacy, constitute an important part of the local diet and you can pick them up cheaply. On Toga Island, children as young as seven smoke tobacco, using coconut crab claws as pipes. Hand stencils are visible on the walls at Yeyenwu Caves on Hiu Island, the northernmost island in the group, and they will keep stalactite and stalacmite buffs entertained for hours. You can see Vanikolo in the Solomons from Mt Wonvaraon on Hiu. Flights leave from Luganville for Linua, and from there you can get around in outrigger canoes or speedboats.  
pacific_wallis_and_futuna_activities.html:  Activities  The choices are fairly limited on this tiny group of islands, partly because there are simply not enough visitors to warrant much tourist structure. A relaxing island circuit by scooter is perhaps the best way to spend your time. Exploring archeological sites, hiking around the crater lakes and visiting the various churches are all recommended. Although there are good beaches, you have to make some effort to get to them. Still, lying under a palm tree is one of the essential Pacific activities, so get yourself out to Alofi or one of Wallis' lagoon islands.  A leisurely game of golf or Polynesian cricket or, if you're lucky, an invitation to share some kava with Futunan locals are probably the most typical local activities you might get involved in. Break up your physical exertions by partaking in the French-influenced cuisine and wine, but be warned, this sort of luxury in the middle of the Pacific Ocean doesn't come cheap.  
pacific_wallis_and_futuna_attractions.html:  Attractions  The volcanic origins of Wallis, the main island of the group, are evident in its many crater lakes. It is the busiest, most populated island, and reinforces this mantle by offering several video shops and even weekend discos! Your standard-issue small Pacific island, its low-key charms include lagoon islands, churches, crater lakes and archaeological dig sites. Mata Utu is the main village, and the rest of the island's attractions can be accessed via the island's circuit road.  Downtown Mata Utu, Wallis' main centre, is a mixture of the prosaic and the profound - the local cathedral mixes it up with restaurants, a hotel, a craft outlet, the King's Palace and the post office. A short walk westward you'll find the police station, airline office and the Uvea Shopping Centre. Other restaurants and hotels aren't too far away.  About 9km (6mi) south of Mata Utu lies Talietumu, a magnificent but little-known archaeological site. This beautifully restored site consists of fortified Tongan settlements established by the invading Tongans in around 1450. Tonga Toto is the other key archaeological site on Wallis. Its name has been translated to mean `the blood of Tongans', a reference to the ferocity of the Tongan invasions.   Lake Lalolalo is the most spectacular of the Wallis crater lakes. Forming almost a perfect circle, its rocky cliffs fall 30m down to the inky, 80m-deep water. Rumour has it that the American forces dumped equipment into the lake at the end of WWII. Wallis itself has few decent beaches so the surrounding lagoon's many (uninhabited) islands offer the best swimming and picnic spots. The pick of these are Faioa, Nukuhione and Nukuhifala.  
pacific_wallis_and_futuna_environment.html:  Environment  The Wallis & Futuna group lies midway between Fiji and the Samoas and has a total land area of 274 sq km (169 sq mi), making it 2.5 times the size of Paris. It's made up of 20 islets and three larger rocks that qualify as islands: Wallis, Futuna and Alofi. Low-lying Wallis is the main island, surrounded by a wide, shallow lagoon and littered with crater lakes formed by the long-defunct volcanos. In comparison Futuna and (unpopulated) Alofi are lagoonless. They both have mountainous interiors, with the high point of Futuna (and of the entire territory) the salubriously named Mt Puke, measuring a decent 524m (1700ft).  Ecologically, the territory suffers from a lack of significant native plants and animals, though Wallis does have an endemic lizard. Pigs (ceremonially killed in the islands' many festivals) are plentiful on all islands, especially Alofi, which is estimated to have 10,000 pigs in an area of only 51 sq km (32 sq mi). The large African snail arrived uninvited 20 years ago and after consistently eating its way through local crops has well and truly overstayed its welcome. The islands also suffer from extensive deforestation - not the result of invading multinational loggers but rather the use of wood by locals as the prime source of fuel. The removal of trees has caused extensive erosion and runoff into the oceans, particularly on Futuna.   If you're after consistency in your weather, these islands deliver. The archipelago enjoys a classic hot and tropical desert-island climate and the temperature has not dropped below 17 C (60 F) or risen over 33 C (90 F) in 30 years. May to October is dry while November to April brings the hotter rainy season, which also happens to be cyclone time. The islands are close to the meeting point of the Pacific and Indo-Australian continental plates and experience the odd bit of seismic activity. The last severe earthquake was in 1993.  
pacific_wallis_and_futuna_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: European Union and Swiss nationals, and citizens of Canada, Australia and New Zealand are allowed entry for three months without a visa. Citizens of Japan and the US are allowed entry for one month without a visa.Health risks: Sunburn and coral cuts aside, there are few health risks. You can safely drink the water on Wallis, but on Futuna you should boil it thoroughly or drink bottled water. Although both islands have public hospitals, there's a limit to what they can treat - the enormous distance from specialised medical treatment is a health risk throughout most of the South Pacific. Don't forget to pack sunburn and antiseptic cream.Time: GMT/UTC + 12 hoursElectricity: 220V 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Anytime between May and October - the dry season - is ideal for a visit to Wallis & Futuna. The average temperature during this period, when the hot climate is tempered by sea breezes, is a comfortable 27 C (80 F). Temperatures tend to climb during the rainy season, November-April. Cyclones during this period are another reason to avoid visiting at this time.     Events  Apart from the standard Western public holidays such as Christmas, Easter and New Year, this French territory also celebrates Labor Day (1 May), Bastille Day (14 July), All Saints' Day (1 November) and Armistice Day (11 November). St Pierre Chanel Day (28 April) commemorates Futuna's first missionary who arrived in 1837 and was killed on the local king's orders just four years later. The three Wallis parishes also take holidays on 14 May, 29 June and 15 August.    
pacific_wallis_and_futuna_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Alofi is only a 15-minute boat ride from Futuna, but the lack of adequate fresh water has kept permanent residents away. Home to a reputed 10,000 pigs, this small island also boasts possibly the best beach Wallis & Futuna has to offer. Think tropical island paradise: white sand, clear water and shady trees. Plenty of locals spend the day at Alofi looking after their pigs and tending their gardens, so you'll be in good company. There is a small church, and if you want to do the Robinson Crusoe thing there are some open fale with solar-powered lighting for overnight stays.  
south_america_argentina_activities.html:  Activities  Just one example of the prevailing Italian influence is the importance placed on soccer, by far the country's most popular spectator and participatory sport. Argentina also has oodles of activity sports such as trekking, skiing and watersports. Elite sports such as rugby and polo reflect the influence of the country's immigrant societies, and skiing, despite its expense, is gaining in popularity. Argentina actually has some of the best skiing in the world, and many of the resorts have ski schools. There are several major skiing areas: the southern Cuyo region, the Lake District, La Hoya and near Ushuaia in Tierra del Fuego.  Wilderness walks are also very popular, with vast and beautiful treks through the Andes, Sierras de C rdoba and the Sierra de la Ventana in Buenos Aires province. Climbers should head for Aconcagua, west of Mendoza, the Fitzroy Range in Parque Nacional Los Glaciares in Santa Cruz province, and the Sierra de la Fentana (for advanced climbing). White-water rafting is becoming increasingly popular on the rivers that descend from the Andean divide; the main possibilities include R o Mendoza and R o Diamante in the Cuyo region, R o Hua Hum and R o Meliquina near San Mart n de los Andes and the R o Limay and R o Manso near Bariloche.  
south_america_argentina_attractions.html:  Attractions  To the city's poet laureate, Jorge Luis Borges, Buenos Aires was as eternal as air and water. To many Argentines, their capital city is synonymous with the country itself - indeed, nearly 40% of the population lives in the city or its massive, sprawling suburbs. Buenos Aires is situated on the banks of the R o de la Plata. A city transported from its European parents, its compact and regular center is reminiscent of Paris, and its tree-lined avenues and frequent plazas have a beguiling, faded elegance.  In this cosmopolitan city, sophisticated dressers mingle with the shabbier unemployed from the surrounding suburbs. Downtown, the Plaza de Mayo is the traditional focus of activity, and lately has been the scene of mass protests against the government's handling of the economic crisis. Nearby Avenida 9 de Julio is popularly known as the world's widest thoroughfare and is truly a pedestrian's nightmare. Avenida Santa Fe is the most fashionable shopping area.  Buenos Aires' attractions include the Catedral Metropolitana, which contains the tomb of revolutionary hero Jose de San Mart n; the Teatro Col n, a world-class facility for opera, ballet and classical music, and a cluster of worthwhile and popular museums like the Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes, the Museo del Cine and the Museo Hist rico Nacional, which presents a panorama of the Argentine experience. Don't miss the colorful Italian suburb of La Boca, which features brightly painted wooden houses lining the Riachuelo waterway, or the Cementerio de la Recoleta, a testament to the national passion for death.  Buenos Aires is an expensive city, but whether you're after a bargain hostel or a top-end hotel, it is possible to stay right in the center of things. Congreso is a good place to look for inexpensive lodgings, while mid-range hotels are concentrated on Avenida de Mayo. Food bargains can be had in the suburbs of La Boca and San Telmo. Downtown, Lavalle and Avenida Corrientes are the places to go for pizza, coffee with the city's intellectuals or one of those ubiquitous meaty dishes.  
south_america_argentina_environment.html:  Environment  Argentina forms the eastern half of South America's long, tapering tail. It's a big country - the eighth largest in the world, and the second largest on the South American continent. It borders Chile to the west (separated by the Andean Cordilleras range) and Uruguay, Paraguay, Brazil and Bolivia to the north and east (separated by rivers). It also shares the offshore island territory of Tierra del Fuego with Chile, and continues to dispute the ownership of the Islas Malvinas (the Falklands to the Brits). Argentina's topography is affected by both latitude and altitude, and is accordingly varied. The country can be divided into four major physiographic provinces: the Andes to the west (with arid basins, grape-filled foothills, glacial mountains and the Lake District), the fertile lowland north (with subtropical rainforests), the central Pampas (a flat mix of humid and dry expanses) and Patagonia (a combination of pastoral steppes and glacial regions).  More than twenty national parks preserve large areas of these varied environments and protect wildlife (much of it unique) such as the caiman (or yacare), puma, guanaco (a lowland relative of the upper-Andean llama), rhea (similar to an ostrich), Andean condor, flamingo, various marine mammals and unusual seabirds such as Magellanic penguins. Thorn forests, virgin rainforests, flowering cacti, extensive forests of monkey-puzzle trees and southern beech are also protected.  Argentina's climate ranges from subtropical in the north to humid and steamy in the centre, and cold in the temperate south. The Andes region has erratic rainfall, flash floods in summer, searing heat, snow at higher elevations, and the Zonda - a hot, dry wind. The lowlands receive sufficient rainfall to support swampy forests and upland savanna, but rainfall decreases from east to west; shallow summer flooding is common in the east. The winter dry season is pronounced, and the summer heat can be brutal. The flat pampas areas are also vulnerable to flooding; Patagonia is mild year-round in the east and glacial in the south.  
south_america_argentina_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most foreigners do not need visas and, in theory, are issued free, renewable 90-day tourist cards on arrival.Health risks: Cholera and dengue fever are hazards in the subtropical northTime: GMC/UTC minus 3 hours; Buenos Aires observes daylight-saving timeElectricity: 220V, 50HzWeights & measures: Mostly metric, but rural areas may use thelegua (league, about 5 km). When to Go  For residents of the northern hemisphere, Argentina offers the inviting possibility of enjoying two summers in the same year, but the country's great variety and elongated geography can make a visit in any season worthwhile. Buenos Aires' urban attractions, for example, transcend the seasons, but Patagonian destinations, such as the Moreno Glacier in Santa Cruz, are best to visit in the summer months (December to February). The Iguaz Falls in subtropical Misiones province are best in the southern hemisphere's winter or spring when heat and humidity are less oppressive. The winter months (mid-June to late September) also offer the opportunity to go skiing.     Events  Surprisingly, Argentina has few festivals and fiestas, and most public holidays reflect the Roman Catholic liturgical calendar. Things come to a stop over the Christmas to New Year and Easter periods. Saints' days and provincial holidays are other important events, as are 25 May (commemorating the May Revolution of 1810), Malvinas Day (10 June) and Columbus Day (12 October).    
south_america_argentina_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Cuyo region consists of the Andean provinces of Mendoza and San Juan, and adjacent San Luis. The area retains a strong regional identity, with a unique mestizo population reflecting the influence of neighboring Chile. An important agricultural region, particularly famous for its grapes and wine, it lies in the shadow of the massive Andes and is visited for its many sporting and recreational activities, such as climbing and trekking. Wineries, hidden mountain villages and the centers of Mendoza and San Juan are other attractions.  
south_america_bolivia_activities.html:  Activities  Most of the popular treks begin near La Paz, traverse the Cordillera Real on ancient Inca routes, and end in the Yungas. The three-day La Cumbre to Coroico Trek, northeast of La Paz, is the premier hike in Bolivia. Other popular treks include the two-day Taquesi Trek, also known as the Inca Trail, which crosses a low pass in the Cordillera Real between Ventilla and Chulumani; the little-known Yunga Cruz Trek, between the village of Chu avi and Chulumani, which passes over a shoulder of the mighty Illimani; and the six-day El Camino de Oro, or Gold Trail, which heads from Sorata to the R o Tipuani goldfields. The less strenuous walk to the Zongo Valley Ice Caves near La Paz is a spectacular alternative for those suffering cramps or needing to adjust gently to the high altitude. The Cordillera Real also offers great climbing opportunities, including Illimani, 6088m (19,970ft) Huayna Potos , 5648m (18,525ft) Condoriri and the 6427m (21,080ft) Ancohuma. You can ski at the world's highest developed ski run atop a glacier on the slopes of Chacaltaya, near La Paz, or at nearby but less-developed areas on Condoriri and Mururata.  When you've exhausted the mountains, jungle treks in the Amazonian Basin can be arranged in Rurrenabaque, El Porvenir (in the Reserva Biosferica del Beni), Perseverancia (in the Preseverancia and Reserva de Vida Salvaje R os Blanco y Negro) and in the remote but pristine Parque Nacional Noel Kempff Mercado in the northernmost reaches of Santa Cruz Department. River boats plying the R o Mamore from Trinidad go into the heart of Bolivia's greatest wilderness area, enabling travelers to experience the mystique and solitude for which the Amazon is renowned.  
south_america_bolivia_attractions.html:  Attractions  La Paz, the highest capital city in the world, looks like a moon crater. The city is 4km (2mi) above sea level, situated on a canyon floor which shows only a hint of greenery. Even oxygen is at a premium. Fortunately, the life and color of La Paz is found in its people and culture, not its landscape. Find a good vantage point and simply watch the passing throng: women wearing bowler hats (worn on the side if they're single and on top if they're married) and voluminous skirts; white-shirted businessmen and politicians; machine-gun toting military; and beggars asleep under awnings, wrapped up like sarcophagi.  People congregate around the splendid Iglesia de San Francisco (construction began in 1549) with its arresting blend of mestizo and Spanish styles. Behind the church is the Witches' Market where you can buy a bizarre assortment of goods including amulets, potions, delicately crafted silver jewelery, sweets and dried llama fetuses. La Paz also has a number of museums, including the Museo Costumbrista Juan de Vargas, which contains some superb dioramas of the city, and the Museo de Metales Preciosos Pre-Columbinos, which houses three impressively presented salons of pre-Conquest silver, gold and copper works. Standing guard over all this is Illimani (6460m/21,188ft), some 60km (37mi) to the east, which is arguably Bolovia's most famous peak.  Most of the budget accommodation and cheap eateries can be found in the area between Calle Manco Capac and the Prado. For entertainment, there are folk-music shows, bars (generally with incoherent patrons), several good discos and numerous cinemas. Because of the often chilly temperatures, warm clothing is essential throughout the year.  Around La Paz is the aptly named Valle de la Luna, which is an eroded hillside maze of miniature canyons and pinnacles 11km (7mi) east of the city; the spectacular Zongo Valley, 50km (31mi) north of the city, which has ice caves, turquoise lakes and the peak of Huayna Potos ; and the historical ceremonial center of Tiahuanaco, 70km (43mi) west of the city, which is Bolivia's most important archaeological site.  
south_america_bolivia_environment.html:  Environment  Bolivia is sandwiched between Peru, Paraguay, Argentina, Brazil and Chile in central South America. It is the fifth-largest country on the continent, measuring roughly the size of France and Spain combined. There are five geographical regions: the highly populated Altiplano, a 3500m (11,480ft) plateau that stretches from the Peruvian border north of Lake Titicaca southwards to the Argentine border; the highland valleys, which lie to the south and east of the Altiplano and which boast near optimum climatic conditions and fertile soils; the Yungas, which form the transition zone between the icy peaks of the Andes and the steamy Amazonian forest; the Chaco, a hot, dry, impenetrable and uninhabited plain along the Paraguayan and Argentine borders; and the underdeveloped swamps, savannas, scrub and rainforest of the Amazonian Basin, which occupies much of the north and east of the country.  Due to its relatively sparse population, lack of development and diverse geography, Bolivia is one of the best places on the continent to see South American wildlife. Fauna include the rare spectacled bear, jaguar, vicu a, llama, alpaca, anteater, tapir, capybara, turtle, alligator, rhea and condor. Although Bolivia has a fairly good national park system, encroachment into the lowlands of the Amazonian basin by settlers is increasing, and the huge fortunes awaiting those prepared to exploit the area's mineral, agricultural and timber resources have made environmentalism a less convenient posture for the government to adopt.  Because of the extreme geographical variations, Bolivia has a wide range of climatic patterns. Generally, temperatures are cool, with the rainy period extending from November to March in most of the country. The cities of La Paz and Potos often experience very cold temperatures and sometimes snow, while the Altiplano region is prone to severe flooding. During the dry period the climate is pleasant, though clear skies can cause nighttime temperatures to drop. In the lowlands, the weather is hot and sunny, with the occasional cloudburst helping to cool things down.  
south_america_bolivia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Regulations change frequently, but currently citizens of most EU countries can stay 90 days without a visa; citizens of the USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, South Africa and Israel can stay 30 days without a visa. Most other nationalities require a visa in advance - usually issued for a 30-day stay.Health risks: Altitude sickness, Chagas disease, cholera, dengue fever, hepatitis, malaria, polio, rabies, tetanus, typhoid, yellow-feverTime: GMT/UTC minus 4 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 Hz (except in La Paz which has 110V & 220V, 50 Hz)Weights & measures: Metric When to Go  Bolivia lies in the southern hemisphere; winter runs from May to October and summer from November to April. The most important climatic factor to remember is that it's generally wet in the summer and dry in the winter.  While the highlands and altiplano can be cold in the winter and wet in the summer, the only serious barrier to travel will be the odd road washout. In the tropical lowlands, however, summer can be miserable with mud, steamy heat, bugs and relentless downpours. Travel is difficult, and services may be stifled by mud and flooding.  Also consider that the high tourist season falls in the winter (late June to early September), due not only to climatic factors, but also to the timing of European and North American summer holidays and the fact that it's also Bolivia's major fiesta season. This means that both overseas visitors and lots of South Americans are traveling during this period.     Events  Bolivian fiestas are invariably of religious or political origin, normally commemorating a Christian or Indian saint or god, or a political event such as a battle or revolution. The festivities typically include lots of folk music, dancing processions, food, alcohol, ritual and generally unrestrained behavior. Major fiestas include Fiesta de la Virgen de Candelaria, a week-long festival in the virgin's honor, best seen in Copacabana on the shores of Lake Titicaca (early February); Carnival is a nationwide event but is best seen in Oruro (the week before Lent); Phujllay is held in Tarabuco to commemorate the Battle of Lumbati (early March); the animated Festividad de Nuestro Se or Jes s del Gran Poder is held in La Paz to celebrate the power of Jesus Christ (May-June); and Independence Day is a riotous nationwide party (6 August).    
south_america_bolivia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This 12,000 sq km (4680 sq mi) saltpan at an altitude of 3650m (11,970ft) was once part of a prehistoric salt lake which covered most of southwestern Bolivia. It's estimated to contain 10 billion tons of fine salt reserves and produces 19,700 tons per year, largely using traditional methods. Isla de Pescadores, in the middle of the saltpan, has spectacular stands of cactus and is home to a stranded colony of vizcachas (long-tailed rodents related to the chinchilla). The village of Uyini, southeast of the saltpan, is the best base for excursions. Northwest of Salar de Uyini is the Salar de Coipasa, on whose northern shore is a unique Chipaya Indian village. Residents of this village may be descendants of the lost Tiahuanaco civilization. If you travel this far off the beaten track, be sensitive to local culture; photography of people in this region is discouraged.  
south_america_brazil_activities.html:  Activities  There are great spots for hang-gliding in Rio, especially around Pedra Bonita, near Pepino beach. Surfing is popular all along the coast and waves are especially good in the southern state of Santa Caterina, although there is also plenty of good surf close to Rio. Wind-surfing has caught on in Brazil - while B zios is a good place to go, the hardcore mecca is north-west of Fortaleza in places such as Jericoacoara. Sailing is big in B zios and off the larger resorts along the coast. Inland, the Rio Araguaia in Goi s and Tocantins is known as a fishing paradise. There are excellent opportunities for rock climbing in and near Rio and in the national and state parks, and hiking is great along the coast and in some of the national and state parks. Futebol (soccer) is the national obsession, and if you can play the game or talk about it meaningfully you'll become an instant hit with the locals.  
south_america_brazil_attractions.html:  Attractions  Rio is the Cidade Maravilhosa (Marvellous City). Jammed into the world's most beautiful setting - between ocean and escarpment - are seven million Cariocas, as Rio's inhabitants are called. The Cariocas pursue pleasure like no other people: beaches and the body beautiful; samba and beer; football and the local firewater, cacha a (rum).  Rio has its share of problems: a third of the people live in the favelas (shanty towns) that blanket many of the hillsides; the poor have no schools, no doctors and no jobs; drug abuse and violence are endemic; and police corruption and brutality are commonplace. Rio's reputation as a violent city caused a sharp reduction in tourism in the 1990s, but travelers will find themselves no more at risk than in most large cities in the world.  Rio is divided into a zona norte (northern zone) and a zona sul (southern zone) by the Serra da Carioca, steep mountains that are part of the Parque Nacional da Tijuca. The view from the top of Corcovado, the 750m (2460ft) mountain peak with the statue of Christ the Redeemer at its summit, offers the best way to become geographically familiar with the city. Favelas crowd against the hillsides on both sides of town.  The beach, a ritual and a way of life for the Cariocas, is Rio's common denominator. Copacabana is probably the world's most famous beach, and runs for 4.5km (3mi) in front of one of the most densely populated residential areas on the planet. From the scalloped beach you can see the granite slabs that surround the entrance to the bay. Ipanema is Rio's richest and most chic beach. Other beaches within and near the city include Pepino, Barra da Tijuca, Flamengo (though the water is a bit suspect here) and Arpoador.   P o de A car (Sugar Loaf) is God's gift to the picture-postcard industry. Two cable cars climb 396m (1300ft) above Rio and the Ba a de Guanabara and, from the top, Rio looks the most beautiful city in the world. The 120 sq km (47 sq mi) Parque Nacional de Tijuca, 15 minutes from the concrete jungle of Copacobana, is all that's left of the tropical jungle that once surrounded Rio. The forest is an exuberant green, with beautiful trees and waterfalls.  Rio's famous glitzy Carnaval is a fantastic spectacle, but there are more authentic celebrations held elsewhere in Brazil. In many ways, Carnaval can be the worst time to be in Rio. Everyone gets a bit unglued at this time of year: taxi fares quadruple, accommodation triples and masses of visitors descend on the city to get drunk, get high and exchange exotic diseases.  The best areas for budget hotels are Gl ria, Catete and Flamengo. Botafogo is the heart of gay Rio; Cinel ndia and Lapa have a lot of samba; and Leblon and Ipanema have upmarket, trendy clubs with excellent jazz.  
south_america_brazil_environment.html:  Environment  Brazil is the world's fifth largest country, occupying almost half the South American continent and bordering every country on it except Chile and Ecuador. Much of Brazil is scarcely populated, although some regions with previously low population densities, such as the Amazon, are being rapidly settled, logged and depleted.  Brazil can be divided into four major geographic regions. The long, narrow Atlantic seaboard has coastal ranges between the Rio Grande do Sul and Bahia, but is flatter north of Bahia. The large highlands - called the Planalto Brasileiro, or central plateau - which extend over most of Brazil's interior south of the Amazon Basin are punctuated by several small mountain ranges and sliced by several large rivers. There are also two great depressions: the Parana-Paragui basin in the south, which is characterized by open forest, low woods and scrubland; and the huge, densely forested Amazon basin in the north. The Amazon, 6275km (3890mi) long, is the world's largest river, and the Amazon forest contains 30% of the world's remaining forest.  The richness and diversity of Brazil's fauna - much of which is endemic - is astounding, and the country ranks first in the world for numbers of species of mammals, freshwater fish and plants; second for amphibians, third for bird species; and fifth for species of reptiles. Despite its natural riches, Brazil is renowned for the destruction of its environment. All of Brazil's major ecosystems are threatened, not just the well-known Amazonia. Many species are under threat because of the continued depletion of rainforests, desertification in the northeast, poaching in the Pantanal region and coastal pollution.  Most of the country has noticeable seasonal variations in rain, temperature and humidity, but only the south of Brazil has large seasonal changes. The Brazilian winter is from June to August, with the coldest southern states receiving average winter temperatures of between 13 C and 18 C (55 F and 64 F). In summer (December to February), Rio is hot and humid, with temperatures in the high 30 sC (80 sF) common; the rest of the year, temperatures usually hover around 25 C (77 F). The northeast coast gets as hot as Rio in the summer but tropical breezes make it less humid and stifling. In general, the Planalto Brasiliero is less hot and humid, and is prone to summer rainfalls. The Amazon basin is the rainiest part of Brazil (the term 'rainforest' is a bit of a giveaway), and while it is humid, temperatures average a reasonable 27 C (80 F).  
south_america_brazil_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Passports must be valid for at least six months from date of entry. Visas are required for tourists of many nationalities, including Australia, Canada and the USA; visas are generally for 90 days, with one extension of up to 90 days possible.Health risks: Dengue fever, malaria, meningitis, rabies, yellow feverTime: GMT/UTC minus 2 hours for the Fernando de Noronha archipelago; GMT/UTC minus 3 hours in the east, northeast, south and southeast; GMT/UTC minus 4 hours in the west; and GMT/UTC minus 5 hours in the far westElectricity: Unstandardized; mostly 110 or 120V, though some hotels have 220V; 60 Hz in Rio and S o PauloWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Most of Brazil can be visited comfortably throughout the year, it's only the south - which can be unbearably sticky in summer (December-February) and non-stop rainy in winter (June-August) - that has large seasonal changes. The rest of the country experiences brief tropical rains throughout the year, which rarely affect travel plans.  During summer (December-February) many Brazilians are on vacation, making travel difficult and expensive, and from Rio to the south the humidity can be oppressive. Summer is also the most festive time of year, as Brazilians escape their apartments and take to the beaches and streets. School holidays begin in mid-December and go through to Carnaval, usually held in late February.     Events  Although there are festivals taking place all year-round in Brazil, the country's most famous event is Carnaval, beginning at midnight on the Friday before Ash Wednesday and lasting for five days. It is celebrated all over Brazil and there are more authentic versions than the glitzy tourist drawcard held in Rio, but Rio's is a fantastic spectacle nonetheless. In the samb dromo, a tiered street designed for samba parades, the Brazilians harness sweat, noise and mayhem as the 16 top samba schools each have their hour of glory.  The four-day Carnival commences on the following dates: March 1 2003; Feb 21 2004; Feb 5 2005.    
south_america_brazil_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Jericoacoara is the latest remote-and-primitive 'in' beach to become popular among backpackers, wind-surfers and hipper Brazilians. Situated on the Cear coast, northwest of Fortaleza, Jericoacoara is a small fishing village, where dozens of palms drowning in sand dunes face jangadas (sailboats) stuck on a broad grey beach. Goats, sheep, cattle, horses and dogs roam the sandy streets at will.  You can boogie at the forr held every Wednesday and Saturday: just follow the music. You can also climb the sand dunes (perhaps to watch the sunset), hitch a ride on a jangada, or walk to Pedra Furada, a rock 3km (2mi) east along the beach. You can also hire horses and gallop along the beach.  
south_america_buenos_aires_activities.html:  Activities  The arts are king in Buenos Aires; there is only one activity to master in this city and it is without doubt dancing. Luckily tango, flamenco, Latin, salsa and folk lessons are widely available in clubs around San Telmo barrio (details available at tourist offices). Not surprisingly, live music is also extremely popular among porte os, with some good jazz clubs about the city. Theater and opera also enjoy a strong traditional patronage. If anything embodies Argentine passion greater than the tango, it is their national religion -  futbol - and Buenos Aires is home to the fervor of cross-town rivals Boca Juniors (where Maradona played) and River Plate. Even non-football types should try and get to a live match for the drama, theatrics and hysteria - and that's all before the whistle has even blown.  
south_america_buenos_aires_attractions.html:  Attractions  It's not very often that a cemetery would feature as a tourist must-see, but the necropolis at Recoleta is an astonishing exception to the rule. Recoleta is Buenos Aires' ritziest and wealthiest neighborhood, with superb old mansions along the Avenida Alvear. Nowhere is this elitism better displayed than at the resting ground of the rich and famous at the Cementario de la Recoleta.  Within the grounds, the mausoleums and vaults contain the legacy of Argentina's aristocratic and turbulent political past; their ostentatious splendor is a sight to behold. The Iglesia de Nuestra Se ora de Pilar alongside the cemetery is a Baroque colonial church that was consecrated in 1732, and is now a major historical monument.  
south_america_buenos_aires_facts.html:  When to Go  Spring (September to November) and autumn (March to May) have the most hospitable temperatures, while the oppressive summer is a good time to head for the coastal resorts. Some museums and entertainment venues close during the hottest period. Summer is the most expensive time to visit with many holidaying porten s vying for accommodation and transport.     Events  The Feria del Libro annual book fair draws in over a million book fans to Buenos Aires during April, with Latin American literature most widely represented. The event takes place at the sprawling Centro Municipal de Exposicions. In mid-May, the Feria de Galer as de Arte features exhibitions from over 80 different galleries and showcases a variety of influences from Argentina and around the world.  Buenos Aires is famous for its tango heritage, and on December 11 each year locals celebrate D a del Tango, the birthday of Carlos Gardel, who took tango to the world. Many events take place around the city to mark the occasion and the singer's tomb at Chacarita draws Elvis-like worshipping hordes. For those interested in Argentina's traditional gaucho (cowboy) heritage, the Campeonato Abierto de Pato in December is the championship play-off for the pato crown; it's a bit like watching a game of horseback rugby. Also in December is the Campeonato Abierto Argentino de Polo, the slightly more highbrow polo championship season finale.    
south_america_buenos_aires_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Only an hour north of Buenos Aires by train (slightly longer by bus) is the tranquil suburb of Tigre, a good base for discovering life on the canals of the Delta del Paran and making trips across to Uruguay. Buenos Aires' porte os come here to retreat and it can get busy on weekends.  Also popular are trips to Isla Mart n Garc a, only 2km (1.2mi) off the Uruguayan coast and a short ferry trip from Tigre. The park-like island is an all-in-one historical monument, nature reserve and recreational retreat. With the densely forested delta nearby, the island was used as a prison camp (including four ex-presidents) and strategic observation point to guard against smugglers and protect the approaches to R o Uruguay and R o Paran .  
south_america_caracas_activities.html:  Activities  Caraque os love shopping and there are plenty of shopping areas and malls to cater for them, particularly in the historic center, La Candelaria, Sabana Grande, Chaca to and Chacao. To make sure you get just what you ordered, you could do a language course - several institutions offer them. For something more culturally stimulating, the city's dozen theaters should fit the bill. Spectator sports include professional-league baseball at the university, soccer at the neighboring stadium and horse racing at the Hip dromo La Rinconada, 6km (3.5mi) from the center. Having indulged in the usual big-city activities, the best thing to do is to hit nearby Parque Nacional El vila for a spot of hiking. Local rock climbing fans flock to the Parque de Recreaci n Cuevas del Indio.  
south_america_caracas_attractions.html:  Attractions  Caracas was founded on the site of today's historic quarter, but any residual colonial flavor has long been swamped by modern high-rise buildings. It's a lively area, though, and boasts some important sites relating to Simon Bol var. The focus of the old town is leafy Plaza Bol var, with the inevitable monument to El Libertador at its heart. The plaza is a favorite playground for all manner of political visionaries and religious messiah-types, who deliver their impassioned speeches to an audience of nonplussed office workers each lunchtime.  The collection of notable buildings lining the square includes the city's cathedral, which replaced the original structure destroyed by the violent earthquake of 1641. The Bol var family chapel can easily be recognized by its modern sculpture of El Libertador. The square's southern side is dominated by the Concejo Municipal building, erected by Caracas' bishops in the 17th century to house a seminary and for a time taken over by the province's first university. The Museo Caracas on the ground floor highlights local history, and has some great models of the city as it appeared in the early 19th century and 1930s. To grasp just how much this city of almost five million has grown, take a look at the map dating from 1578 in the building's central courtyard.  
south_america_caracas_facts.html:  When to Go  Any time is a fine time to visit Caracas. The city enjoys a dry climate, so the fact that June to October is the wet season elsewhere in Venezuela is really of no concern. Temperatures are mild and steady, averaging a perfect 25 C (75 F) year-round, and rainfall even in the wet season is usually no more than 100mm (4in). Venezuelans go on a whirlwind visitation of friends and family at Christmas, Carnaval and Easter, so avoiding the resulting transport and accommodation mayhem could be a factor in deciding when to visit.     Events  Events in Caracas are largely driven by the many, many festivals of the Church calendar. Everything comes to a halt at Christmas, Carnaval, Easter and Corpus Christi, and saints' days are also important celebrations. The city's biggest religious feast takes place at Easter in the suburb of Chacao, kicking off with the Bajada de Palmeras on the Friday before Palm Sunday, and culminating in solemn processions on Maundy Thursday and Good Friday, and the Quema de Judas (Burning of Judas) on Easter Sunday. In general, the more-traditional outlying suburbs celebrate holy days with greater vigor than central districts. El Hatillo goes crazy on May 3, July 16 and September 4, and Petare flicks the fiesta switch on January 30 and 31, and the last Sunday of September.  Cultural events are also big news in Caracas. The highlight is the Festival Internacional de Teatro (International Theater Festival), held in March/April of every even-numbered year. El Hatillo holds a small music festival between September and November, and its wide-ranging Festival El Piano in June/July runs the gamut from Bach to Chick Corea. July-August's Temporada de Danza brings together the nation's leading dance groups. The anniversary of the city's foundation, July 25, is marked by a frenzy of cultural activities throughout Caracas, with concerts, exhibitions and theater on offer.  Official public holidays include January 1 (New Year's Day), the Monday and Tuesday before Ash Wednesday (Carnaval), Maundy Thursday and Good Friday, April 19 (Declaration of Independence), May 1 (Labor Day), June 24 (Battle of Carabobo), July 5 (Independence Day), July 24 (Bol var's birthday), October 12 (Discovery of America) and December 25 (Christmas).    
south_america_caracas_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The tiny old town of El Hatillo is a distant suburb of Caracas nowadays, but before becoming part of the capital's metropolitan sprawl it had happily gone its own independent way for centuries. Like most other Venezuelan towns, it's centered around its own Plaza Bol var, and has managed to retain some of its colonial architecture. The houses in the town center have been restored and painted in bright colors, and every second one of them is either a restaurant, cafe, boutique, art gallery or handicraft shop. Hordes of trendy caraque os descend on the village at weekends, and the resulting explosion of eating outlets has been extraordinary - you'll find most major foreign cuisines represented, from French and Italian to Japanese and Thai. El Hatillo is 15km (9.5mi) southeast of the city center, and is linked to Caracas by frequent carritos.  
south_america_chile_and_easter_island_activities.html:  Activities  Chile's abundance of natural parks offer great trekking opportunities, particularly the Parque Nacional La Campana (easily accessible from Santiago), Parque Nacional Laguna del Laja, Parque Nacional Huerquehue, Parque Nacional Villarrica and Parque Nacional Puyehue. The Parque Nacional Torres del Paine is a hiker's paradise, with a well-developed trail network and opportunities for cross-country trekking. Puc n in the Lake District attracts adventurous travelers who enjoy climbing, river rafting, mountain biking and horseback riding. Climbing trips to Volc n Osorno are also popular. Just outside Santiago, the resorts of Valle Nevado and Portillo provide excellent skiing. The Maipo, Claro and Biob o rivers are popular for white-water rafting.  
south_america_chile_and_easter_island_attractions.html:  Attractions  Sprawling outwards and sky-scrapering upwards, Chile's capital, Santiago, is immense. Its central core, however, is manageable and relatively small - a roughly triangular area bounded by the Rio Mapocho on the north. It is a city of grand thoroughfares and plazas, lined with public buildings and churches and circled by parks. The grid town plan imposed by the Spanish, however, is conducive to traffic jams and pollution. The Virgin Mary guards the city from the peak of the 860m (2821ft) Cerro San Crist bal, part of the Parque Metropolitano recreational area.  The city's attractions include the colorful Mercado Central, the historical center of Plaza de Armas, the pedestrian mall of Paseo Ahumada (haunt of buskers and peddlers) and the late-colonial and block-filling Palacio de La Moneda - former mint, presidential residence and the site of Allende's last stand. Santiago has plenty of museums, including the beautifully arranged Pre-Colombian Museum and the Museo de Santiago, which documents the city's present sprawl with dioramas and reconstructions. The Palacio de Bellas Artes is modeled on the Petit Palais in Paris and has a fine collection of European and Chilean art.   Santiago's main budget hotel area is the seedy section of town near the Terminal de Buses Norte. Moderate and top-end hotels can be found in the central area bounded by Avenida Balmaceda and Avenida General O'Higgins (popularly known as the Alameda). Restaurants, from fast to flash, are in abundance, especially around the bus terminals, pedestrian malls, Alameda and Plaza de Armas. Bellavista, known as the 'Paris quarter', is one of the city's liveliest areas, with countless ethnic eateries and an active crafts fair on Friday and Saturday evenings.  
south_america_chile_and_easter_island_environment.html:  Environment  Making up the left-hand side of South America's tapering tail, Chile's lean strip has been described by author Benjam n Subercaseaux as an extravaganza of 'crazy geography'. It extends some 4300km (2666mi) from the desert north to the glacial south, is bordered by the Pacific Ocean on the west and shuttered by the Andes on the east. Chile shares most of its extensive eastern border with Argentina, and borders Peru and Bolivia in the north. Rarely extending beyond 200km (124mi) in width, Chile makes up for longitudinal mincing by rising rapidly from sea level to 6000m (19,680ft) while the country's latitudinal extremes give it a formidable array of landscapes. Snow-capped volcanoes plunge to river canyons; the Great North, where some weather stations have never recorded rainfall, is counterpoint to storm and snow-prone Patagonia; and Chile's razored and sculpted coastline has endowed it with beaches and bays perfect for fishing and swimming.  Chile also lays claim to the offshore territories of Easter Island (3700km/2300mi west), Juan Fern ndez (700km/434mi west) and half of the southern island of Tierra del Fuego (which it shares with Argentina).  The variety of habitat supports distinctive flora and fauna, which are protected by an extensive system of national parks - one of the country's major drawcards for visitors. In the parks, animals such as the endangered vicu a (a wild relative of the alpaca), the Patagonian guanaco (a wild relative of the Andean llama), flamingos, pelicans, penguins, otters and sea lions do the food chain thing. Chilean plant life includes stands of araucaria (the monkey-puzzle tree), cypress and rare alerce trees (similar to the giant redwoods of California). Outside protected areas, extensive logging denudes the landscape at an alarming and increasing rate.  Chile's climate is as varied as its terrain, with arid but surprisingly temperate areas in the north, a heartland which enjoys a Mediterranean climate, and the wind, rain and snow-battered lands of Chilean Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego in the south. The rainy season in the heartland is from May to August when temperatures are cooler, getting down to an average maximum temperature of 10 C (50 F) in July. January's average is 28 C (82 F). Chilean Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego have summer averages of just 11 C (52 F) but if you think that's manageable, muff up and get ready for the wind chill, baby.  
south_america_chile_and_easter_island_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of the USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and most Western European countries do not require a visa although US citizens do pay a US$20 levy. A 90-day entry permit, renewable for another 90 days, is received on entering the country.Health risks: CholeraTime: GMT/UTC minus 4 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Chile's geographical variety can make a visit rewarding in any season. Santiago and Middle Chile are best in the verdant spring (September through November) or during the fall harvest (late February into April), while popular natural attractions like Parque Nacional del Paine in Magallanes and the lakes region are best in summer (December through March).  Conversely, Chilean ski resorts draw many foreigners during the northern summer (June through August). Easter Island is cooler, slightly cheaper and much less crowded outside the summer months. The same is true of the Juan Fernandez archipelago, which can be inaccessible if winter rains erode the dirt airstrip; March is an ideal time for a visit.     Events  The Easter and Christmas holidays are the most important national celebrations, but there's a conglomeration of secular holidays in September, including Fiestas Patrias (mid-September); National Independence Day on the 18th (a day of spirited partying and rodeos); and Armed Forces Day on the 19th. Of the innumerable local cultural festivals, the mid-north town of Andacollo's Fiesta de la Virgin del Rosario is perhaps the weirdest. Drawing pilgrims every December from as far afield as Bolivia, Asian-inspired team dancing fringes a procession of the Virgin's image to a huge shrine. Horse racing and cock fighting provide ancillary entertainment for the crowds camped on surrounding hillsides.    
south_america_chile_and_easter_island_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Near Chile's fragmented southern tip, this park is Chile's showpiece: a world biosphere reserve with all the diverse scenery of Alaska in only 180,000ha (444,600ac). The Torres del Paine are spectacular granite pillars which soar almost vertically for more than 2000m (6560ft) above the Patagonian steppe. Cascading waterfalls, sprawling glaciers, dense forests, and the chance to see Patagonian guanaco make it a truly awesome experience.  
south_america_colombia_activities.html:  Activities  Six-day return treks to the ruins of La Ciudad Perdida are very popular. Guides can arrange transport, food and accommodation (guides are essential because the area is an important marijuana and coca-growing region). The five to seven-day Nabus make-Pico Col n Trek in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta is a great way to experience Colombia's mountains.  There is great snorkeling and diving off the Islas del Rosario, 30km (20mi) offshore from Cartagena, and off the the Isla Bar , the peninsula south of Cartagena. The waters around San Andres and Providencia are ooh-aah pretty-fishy spots of choice delight.  Adventurous jungle tours of the Amazonian interior can be arranged in Leticia. Well-equipped guides are thick on the ground and tours of up to 10 days can be easily arranged. High-speed film - the jungle is often gloomy - and mosquito repellent are a must.  
south_america_colombia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Bogot , the country's capital, is the quintessence of all things Colombian: a city of futuristic architecture, a vibrant and diverse cultural and intellectual life, splendid colonial churches and brilliant museums. It is also a city of Dickensian waifs, beggars, shantytowns, drug dealers and traffic jams. This amazing mixture of prosperity and poverty, Maseratis and mules, makes it one of the world's most chaotic, fascinating and aggressive metropolises.  Sights to look out for include: Museo del Oro, which contains many relics of pre-Colombian history and is perhaps the most important museum of its kind in the world; Museo Nacional, which contains a wealth of exhibits ranging from pre-Columbian to contemporary art; Iglesia de Santa Clara, with its fresco-lined interior, images and altarpieces; Iglesia de San Ignacio, one of the most richly decorated churches in the country; the colonial barrio of La Candelaria, the oldest quarter in the city; Cerro de Monserrate, a peak flanking the city which is famous as a site of many miracles; and Jardin Bot nico Jose Celestino Mutis, a lovely botanical garden featuring a variety of national flora.  Walking the city's streets and observing the mad to-ing and fro-ing, the avalanches of busetas, the extravagant stores and roadside stalls, is as fascinating as contemplating the serene atmosphere of the city's colonial churches and museums, so give yourself plenty of time for this sort of exploration. It's worth hanging out and watching the buskers at the Plaza de Santander, browsing at the Sunday flea market at Mercado de las Pulgas and looking (but not buying) at the street emerald market at the southwestern corner of Avenida Jimenez and Carrera 7.  There is also a lively arts and entertainment scene that features theater and classical musical, discos amplifying sinuous Cuban rhythms in the trendy Zona Rosa, around Carrera 15, plus plenty of venues for watching soccer and bullfighting. Most budget travelers gravitate to La Candelaria, which has cheap accommodation and food.  Fifty kilometers (31mi) northeast of Bogot is the colonial town of Guatavita and the famous Laguna de Guatavita, the ritual center and sacred lake of the Musica Indians, and the cradle of the El Dorado myth.  
south_america_colombia_environment.html:  Environment  Colombia is the fourth-largest country in South America and the only one with coasts on both the Pacific and Caribbean. It shares borders with Panama (to the northwest), Venezuela (east), Brazil (southeast), Peru (south) and Ecuador (southwest). Colombian territory also includes the San Andres and Providencia island groups, 700km (435mi) northwest of the mainland, in the Caribbean Sea. The archipelagoes are 230km (140mi) east of Nicaragua.  The western part of the country is mostly mountainous: the 8000km (5000mi) Cordillera de los Andes runs the length of South America and, on reaching Colombia, splits into three ranges (Cordillera Occidental, Cordillera Central and Cordillera Oriental). Two valleys - Valle del Cauca and Valle del Magdalena - are sandwiched between the three cordilleras; their rivers flow northwards, more or less parallel, until the Cauca River joins the Magdalena River and flows into the Caribbean. Apart from the three Andean chains, Colombia boasts the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, the highest coastal mountain range in the world. Over 50% of the territory east of the Andes is lowland or covered by thick rainforest crisscrossed by rivers and their tributaries.  Among Colombia's geographical curiosities are deserts in the northeast; the jungle of the Pacific coast (which holds a record for highest rainfall); and the Serran a de la Macarena, an isolated mountain formation rising 1000m (3000ft) from the eastern plains.  Colombia claims to have the highest number of species of plants and animals per unit area of any country in the world. Its animals include jaguars, ocelots, peccaries, tapirs, deer, armadillo, numerous species of monkey and the rare spectacled bear. There are more than 1550 recorded species of birds (more than in the whole of Europe and North America combined), ranging from the huge Andean condor to the tiny hummingbird. Equally abundant marine life includes the predacious piranha and the electric eel. Colombia's herbariums have classified over 130,000 plants, including Victoria Amazonica, which is similar to a water lily and has leaves large and strong enough to support a child.  The country's network of reserves includes 33 national parks, six small areas called santuarios de flora y fauna, two reservas nacionales and one area natural nica. Their combined area constitutes 7.9% of Colombia's territory.  As the country lies close to the equator, the average temperature varies little throughout the year. Temperatures do, however, vary with altitude; as a general rule, the temperature falls about 6 degrees centigrade with every 1000m (3280ft) increase in altitude. Colombia's equatorial climate features two seasons: verano (dry) and invierno (wet). But because of the country's complex geographical and altitudinal factors, there is no universal pattern of seasons. One area that does have a definite pattern is Los Llanos, in the east, where the dry season falls between December and March and the rest of the year is wet.  
south_america_colombia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visitors from Australia, New Zealand, most European countries and the USA do not need visa if staying less than 90 days as a tourist. Other passport holders should check visa status with Colombian consular representation before departure.Health risks: Altitude sickness, cholera, hepatitis A, B and D, malaria, rabies, tetanus and typhoidTime: GMT/UTC minus 5 hoursElectricity: 110V, 60 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The most pleasant time to visit Colombia is in the dry season, but there are no major obstacles to general sightseeing in the wet period. Most Colombians take their vacations between late December and mid-January, so transport is more crowded and hotels tend to fill up faster at this time.     Events  The Colombian calendar is awash with festivals, carnivals, fairs and beauty pageants. Some of the biggest events include: Carnaval de Blancos y Negros (Pasto; January); Semana Santa (Holy Week) (most prominent celebrations are in Popay n and Momp s; March or April); Feria de las Flores (Medell n; August); and Reinado del Coco (San Andres; November).    
south_america_colombia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This archipelago in the Caribbean Sea lies about 750km (465mi) northwest of the Colombian mainland and only 230km (140mi) east of Nicaragua. The southern group of islands is clustered around the seahorse-shaped San Andres and 90km (55mi) to the north, mountainous Providencia is plopped into the tropical sea. San Andres especially has been affected by a duty-free inspired tourist boom, but the charm and beauty of these islands has been largely retained. The turquoise waters, extensive coral reefs and rich marine life are a paradise for snorkelers and scuba divers while sun-soaked cays make soaking up UVs seem almost healthy. The easy-going life, friendly atmosphere, adequate (although not super-cheap) tourist facilities and general safety make the archipelago a good place to escape from the outside world.  San Andres lies on the cheapest and most convenient route between Central American and Colombia. There are shuttle flights between the archipelago and the mainland, and direct connections from several southern US capitals. There are no regular ferries or boats, but cargo boats and freighters from Panama and Cartagena will often take passengers.  
south_america_ecuador_and_the_galapagos_islands_activities.html:  Activities  Some of the country's finest climbing and trekking is found about 60km (37mi) south of Quito in Parque Nacional Cotopaxi, whose cone-shaped centerpiece, 5900m (19,350ft) Volc n Cotopaxi, is the world's tallest active volcano. Don't attempt to climb higher than the Jose Ribas refuge (at 4800m/15,750ft) without a guide, proper equipment and a good deal of previous snow and ice climbing experience. Further south, the town of Ba os makes a good base for short walks and ambitious climbs, and it has the added bonus of having toasty thermal springs nearby.  Near Cuenca in the southern highlands, the Area Nacional de Recreaci n Las Cajas offers rugged hiking in bleak terrain scattered with beautiful lakes. Ecuador's highest peak, the 6310m (20,700ft) Chimborazo, is not for daytrippers - if you're not an experienced climber, stick to the area around the mountain, which is great for less strenuous treks.  Ecuador has warm coastal water year round. There are decent swimming beaches at Atacames, San Vicente, Bah a de Car quez, Bah a de Manta, Salinas and Playas. Beware of the strong undertow at Atacames, which claims victims every year.   Scuba diving is possible in the Gal pagos Islands, but you must have your own equipment and book a tour in advance. Snorkeling in the archipelago is less of a hassle - you may even find baby sea lions approaching to stare at you through your mask. Again, bring your own gear and book ahead.   Jungle excursions in the Oriente can be arranged at Misahual , Coca, Ba os, Dureno, Tena and Quito. Excursions often include walks, swims and dugout-canoe trips. Birdwatching is best on jungle tours or while visiting Area Nacional de Recreaci n Las Cajas, Parque Nacional Cotopaxi or the Gal pagos Islands.  
south_america_ecuador_and_the_galapagos_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital of Ecuador is arguably the most beautiful city in South America. Located 2850m (9350ft) above sea level and just 22km (14mi) south of the equator, it boasts a wonderful springlike climate in a spectacular setting. Vistas in Quito are dominated by mountains, with several snowcapped volcanoes standing sentinel in the distance; the city itself sits at the foot of 4700m (15,400ft). Architecturally, Quito has plenty of colonial treasures, and modern building has been strictly controlled in the old town since 1978, when it was declared a world cultural heritage site by UNESCO. The old center is full of whitewashed houses, red tiled roofs and colonial churches, with no flashing neon to disrupt the ambiance of the past. The northern part of the city is the new town, containing modern offices, embassies, shopping centers and airline offices.  Major sights around town include the 16th century Monastery of San Francisco, Ecuador's oldest church; the stark 16th century cathedral; the beautifully preserved colonial-era alley of La Ronda; and El Panecillo (the little bread loaf), a hill with fabulous views of the old town and an enormous statue of the Virgin of Quito. There are a number of decent museums, colonial churches and impressive plazas, as well as an open-air Indian market at the foot of El Panecillo.  Bustling Avenida Amazonas, the showpiece street of modern Quito, is a good place to stop in a sidewalk cafe and watch life go by. Of special interest to those whose fancies tend towards all things slick and slithery, the Vivarium on Reina Victoria in new town is a museum dedicated to the appreciation and study of Ecuador's reptiles and amphibians. To the delight of herpetologists, it houses a number of live specimens, including iguanas, tortoises, turtles, frogs, boa constrictors and the infamous fer-de-lance, one of South America's most poisonous snakes.  Budget hotels can be found in the Santo Domingo area and on La Ronda. The best mid-range hotels and eateries are found in new town.  Travelers should exercise caution at markets and bus stations and in heavily touristed areas, as robbery is commonplace. El Panecillo, El Tejar, Parroquia San Sebastian, Mariscal Sucre, Avenida Cristobal Col n and Gonzalez Suarez are all relatively risky places to hang out, especially after dark.  
south_america_ecuador_and_the_galapagos_islands_environment.html:  Environment  Ecuador - as the name implies - lies draped across the equator in the northwestern corner of South America. It shares a border with Peru to the south and east, and is bounded by Colombia to the north and the Pacific Ocean to the west. Quito, the national capital, sits centered at the northern end of the country in an Andean valley only 22km (14mi) south of the equator. Guayaquil, Ecuador's other main city (and its only major port), basks on the sweltering southern coast just north of the Peruvian border.  The country can be divided into four regions: the western coastal lowlands, the central Andean highlands, the eastern jungles of the Amazon basin and - some 1000km (620mi) west of the mainland - the Gal pagos Islands. The western lowlands - once thick with forests - are today blanketed by banana, palm and cacao farms and have little to interest most travelers. Only a few protected pockets, such as the Maquipucuna biological reserve, still provide glimpses of Ecuador's once spectacular forestlands. The Andean highlands - the country's backbone - are composed of two volcanic ranges separated by a central valley in which the bulk of the population lives. The highlands also contain the nation's highest mountain, Chimborazo, whose 6310m (20,700ft) peak stands out - thanks to Earth's equatorial bulge - as the farthest point from the center of the planet.  The Amazon basin lowlands east of the Andes are an almost impenetrable tangle of rainforest known to Ecuadorians as the Oriente (the East). Although the Amazon itself does not flow through Ecuador, all rivers east of the Andes eventually empty into it. The world famous Gal pagos Islands were Ecuador's first national park and are celebrated for their unique and fearless wildlife.  Thanks to its agreeable climate and patchwork of habitats (alpine grasslands, coastal swamps, tropical rainforest), Ecuador is one of the most species-rich nations on earth. Dubbed by ecologists a 'megadiversity hotspot,' it boasts 300 species of mammal alone, including monkeys, sloths, llamas and alpacas. Birdwatchers come from all over to gawk at the famous Andean condor, but there are plenty of other bird species, and about half of the 58 species found on the Gal pagos Islands are endemic. Ecuador's freshwater fish are equally exotic, though most visitors prefer to experience from a distance the amazing qualities of electric eels, stingrays, piranhas and the tiny candiru catfish - a little charmer who swims up the human urethra and lodges itself in place with the help of its sharp spines.  The only thing predictable about Ecuador's weather is its unpredictability, and it's not uncommon to run the gamut of 'seasons' in the course of a single day. Generally speaking, Ecuador has two seasons, wet and dry, but local weather patterns vary greatly depending on geography. The mainland coastal areas and the Gal pagos Islands are both influenced by ocean currents and are hot and rainy between January and April, an unpleasant time visit.  If you hit the beaches between May and December, it rarely rains and the temperature is a few degrees cooler. In the highlands, the dry season is between June and September and around Christmas, but even the mountains' wet season isn't particularly wet. The central valley is generally springlike all year, with temperatures no higher than 24 C (66 F). The Oriente experiences rain year round; July and August are the wettest months, September through December the driest. It's usually as hot here as it is on the coast.  In 1999 President Jamil Mahuad banned any further oil exploration, mining, logging and colonization in the Cuyabeno-Imuya and Yasuni National Parks. This 2.7 million acre area hosts some of Ecuador's most diverse flora and fauna and is home to several indigenous tribes.  
south_america_ecuador_and_the_galapagos_islands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of most countries can stay a maximum of 90 days per annum without needing a visa.Health risks: Dengue fever, hepatitis, malaria, typhoid, and a minor risk of cholera, rabies and diphtheria. Get a yellow fever vaccination if you plan to visit the rainforests of the Oriente.Time: GMT/UTC minus 5 hoursElectricity: 110V, 60HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Travelers can visit Ecuador year-round; certain areas are better at certain times of the year, but there are no absolutes. In terms of the weather, El Ni o hits hard about one winter every decade, playing havoc with road and rail connections and making communication spotty in some outlying areas. If you're visiting the Gal pagos, you'll find the warm rainy season from January to April is the best time for snorkeling; the rest of the year the water is cooler, typically around 20 C (68 F). The mainland coast has similar weather patterns, and its beaches fill up from January to May during coastal Ecuador's school holidays. June through August sees gringo vacationers descend, though the weather's generally gone chilly by then.  The highlands' dry season (the best time for hiking and climbing) is June to August, which coincides with the wettest months in the Oriente. Trekking in the Oriente is best done in the dry season, from late August through February. As for crowds and costs, the high season both on the mainland and in the Gal pagos tends to be mid-December through January and June to August, when most of the vacationing foreign visitors arrive.     Events  Being a Roman Catholic country, many of the country's festivals are oriented to the liturgical calendar and are celebrated with a combination of great pageantry and elements of traditional Indian fiestas. Rural areas in particular lend a real party atmosphere to their celebrations. All Soul's Day on 2 November is especially colorful, when flower-laying ceremonies brighten the country's cemeteries and the ambiance is more celebratory than somber. Other holidays of historical interest are Sim n Bol var's Birthday on 24 July and Columbus Day on 12 October, though the latter is hardly universal in its appeal.  The pre-Easter Carnival features water fights and fruit and flower festivals. Corpus Christi is a movable feast in June and combines with traditional harvest fiestas in many highland towns. The larger cities' founding and independence days virtually bring them to a partying standstill. Some of the biggies are found in Guayaquil, Otavalo, Cuenca and Quito, though most towns and villages also have their special days. Shops, offices and services are closed during holidays and festivals, and accommodation and transportation options are often packed - book well in advance if possible.    
south_america_ecuador_and_the_galapagos_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Gal pagos archipelago is renowned for its unique and fearless wildlife and has become a mecca for natural-history enthusiasts. Here, you can swim with sea lions, float eye-to-eye with penguins and stand beside a blue-footed booby and ogle as it feeds its young. The archipelago spreads out over 50,000 sq km (19,500 sq mi) of the Pacific Ocean some 1000km (620mi) west of Ecuador and is comprised of 13 main islands and six smaller ones. The landscape is barren and volcanic but has a unique haunting beauty. The highest point in the chain is the 1707m (5600ft) Volc n Wolf on Isla Isabela. The islands' renowned bird and marine life includes albatrosses, penguins, boobies, turtles, giant tortoises, iguanas, sea lions, whales and dolphins.  Ecuador claimed the Gal pagos Islands in 1832, just three years before their most famous visitor, Charles Darwin, dropped anchor on the Beagle and stepped ashore and into history. For the next century, the islands were inhabited by a few settlers and were used as a penal colony, the last of which closed in 1959. The archipelago became a national park in 1959. Today, the park is protected from haphazard tourism by strict limits on where visitors are allowed to go, and all visitors are obliged to be accompanied by a certified naturalist tour guide trained by the national park service. The islands currently receive an average of 60,000 visitors per year. The entrance fee to the Gal pagos has increased dramatically to US$100, payable upon arrival, in cash only.  A visit to the islands is expensive; a high season flight from Ecuador and a week cruising the islands will set you back at least a four-figure sum. Boat trips to the Gal pagos can be arranged from Guayaquil, but it's a hassle and will seldom save you any money. Flights to the islands are much easier to arrange and leave daily from Quito and Guayaquil for the Isla Baltra airport, which is about two hours by public transport from Puerto Ayora, the archipelago's main town, on the central island of Santa Cruz.  
south_america_falkland_islands_activities.html:  Activities   Wildlife watching is the Falkland Islands' main attraction. Though the islands' many birds and marine mammals are relatively tame, observers should keep a conscientious distance. Penguins are the most famous residents, with five species breeding regularly on the islands' beaches, headlands and estuaries. Also, look for large colonies of beautiful black-browed albatrosses, crested caracaras, cormorants, falcons, hawks and swans, as well as elephant seals, sea lions, dolphins and killer whales.   Trekking is a good option, though many landowners and the tourist board now discourage camping because of the fire danger and disturbance of stock and wildlife. The stretch from Seal Bay to Volunteer Point on the northern coast of East Falkland offers a magnificent mixture of broad sandy beaches and rugged headlands with penguins always in view. And if hiking the route is not your thing, you can always arrange horseback riding in Stanley.   Fishing for sea trout, mullet and smelt is another popular pastime, especially at the Murrell River, within walking distance of Stanley. There are many other suitable places in camp, as well as deep-sea fishing from launches across the islands. Fishing season runs from September through April, with March and April the best months for hooking trout.   Windsurfing is possible in sheltered waters such as Stanley Harbour, but only the truly adept can avoid being swept off to South Africa on the prevailing winds. Experienced scuba divers may enjoy exploring the islands' many shipwrecks. Wet suits are essential for any water sports aside from swimming in Stanley's public pool.  
south_america_falkland_islands_attractions.html:  Attractions  In reality, the Falkland Islands' capital is little more than a village that, by historical accident, acquired a political status totally out of proportion to its size. As many of its homes and businesses were pieced together from locally quarried stone and timber salvaged from shipwrecks, Stanley has a certain ramshackle charm, accentuated by its brightly painted houses, sprawling kitchen gardens and the smell of peat fires drifting on the breeze.  Probably the town's most photographed landmark, Government House has been the home of the islands' London-appointed governors since the mid-19th century. Just outside the building, there's a register of visitors that tradition insists you sign. Nearby, Christ Church Cathedral is a massive brick-and-stone construction with a colorfully painted metal roof and impressive stained-glass windows. It was completed in 1892 and now houses several plaques honoring the Falklands' war dead. On the small square next to the cathedral, look for the recently restored Whalebone Arch, commemorating the 1933 centenary of British rule in the Falklands. At the far western end of town, the Falkland Islands Museum is the local candle-burner for the islands' history.  
south_america_falkland_islands_environment.html:  Environment  The Falklands comprise two main islands, East Falkland and West Falkland, plus over 200 smaller islets some 480km (300mi) east of Argentina. Combined, their area is about the same as that of Northern Ireland or the US state of Connecticut. Grassland and shrubs dominate the hilly-to-mountainous landscape, with peat bogs and 'runs' of quartzite boulders breaking up the terrain. There are no native trees. South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, some 1280km (800mi) to 1900km (1200mi) to the east, were the Falklands' dependencies until 1985, when they were constituted as a separate colony of Britain. (They're still administered from Stanley by a civil commissioner who serves concurrently as governor of the Falklands.)  The islands' main draws are its assortment of relatively fearless birds and animals and the bushwalking necessary to see them. In terms of wildlife diversity, only the Everglades and the Gal pagos Islands can compare. If you're coming from the northern hemisphere, chances are good that nearly every creature you see will be new to you, and even if you're not, you won't have seen them in such profusion. The five species of penguin that take up residence on the Falklands between October and March are probably the biggest attraction, but equally impressive are the massive elephant seals, sea lions and other marine mammals that breed on the islands' beaches.  
south_america_falkland_islands_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Requirements are usually the same as those for entering the UK. Citizens of the USA, Canada, Australia and New Zealand are generally allowed to stay six months without a visa.Health risks: Sunburn, windburn, unexploded land minesTime: GMT/UTC minus 4 hoursElectricity: 220/240V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric, but imperial is commonTelephone: Country code 500 When to Go  Migratory birds and mammals return to the Falklands' beaches and headlands between October and March. December and January are the best months for wildlife watching, as the extended daylight hours provide ample viewing time as well as opportunity for other outdoor activities. However, December and January are also the wettest months, though rain falls throughout the year. October through April is the peak tourist season, but that's not saying much.  Annual sports meetings are the islands' other 'wildlife' attraction, with events including horse racing, bull riding and sheepdog trials. Stanley's sports meetings take place December 26th-27th, while camp sports are usually held in late February. Sea trout season runs from September through April, with the best fishing starting in late February.     Events  The Falklands celebrate a fair number of holidays, but the wildest event you're likely to encounter - aside from a parade of nude sheep just after shearing season - is the annual sports meetings held every summer on both of the main islands. The festivities take place in Stanley on 26 and 27 December and on West Falkland in late February or early March. Other than that, look for events on and around the Queen's Birthday (21 April), Liberation Day (14 June), Falklands Day (14 August), the Battle of the Falklands remembrance day (8 December) and for major western holidays like Christmas, New Year's and Easter.    
south_america_falkland_islands_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Just north of mainland West Falkland, Saunders Island was the site of the first British garrison on the Falklands, built in 1765, and it was their ousting by the Spanish in 1767 that nearly caused a war between the two countries. After the British left voluntarily in 1774, the Spanish razed the settlement, and all that remains today are a few jetties, block-house foundations and the garden terraces of the British marines. Aside from the ruins, the island boasts large colonies of seabirds (including several types of penguin) and elephant seals.  
south_america_french_guiana_activities.html:  Activities   Surfing, windsurfing and sailing are possible on the beaches near Cayenne and Kourou, but there are few facilities of any kind, so try to befriend a local. Canoe trips on Gabrielle Creek can be arranged at Dacca, a Laotian village near Roura. River trips on the Maroni River can be arranged from St Laurent du Maroni. Kaw is a good place for bird watching, and you can see leatherback turtles near Mana between April and September. There is a hiking trail from Remire-Montjoly to the top of Montagne du Mahury. There are great ecotourism opportunities in the forested interior, though trips are expensive.  
south_america_french_guiana_attractions.html:  Attractions  French Guiana's capital has a relaxed tropical ambiance. It's located at the western end of a small, hilly peninsula between the Cayenne and Mahury rivers on the Atlantic coast and is the country's major port. The liveliest area is the Place de Palmistes at the northwest end of town, where there are many cafes and outdoor food stalls; the oldest area is the Place Grenoble, to the west, which is home to most of the town's public buildings. Avenue du General de Gaulle is the main commercial street.  The remains of the 17th-century Fort Ceperou may not look like much, but the views of the town, the port and the Cayenne River make a visit worthwhile. The Musee Departemental has interesting exhibits on indigenous peoples, colonial history and the penal colony. Cayenne's main vegetable market is on Place Victor Schoelcher, named after the man most responsible for ending slavery in French Guiana. The misleadingly named Village Chinois (Chinatown) has a fish market and Asian (mainly Javanese) food stalls. Some of the best music is in small clubs in Village Chinois, nicknamed 'Chicago.' Cayenne's best beach is at Remire-Montjoly, 10km (6mi) southeast of town, where you'll also find the historical ruins of Fort Diamant and an early colonial sugar mill.  
south_america_french_guiana_environment.html:  Environment  Located on the northeast coast of South America, French Guiana is roughly the same size as Ireland or the US state of Indiana. It borders Brazil in the east and south, the Atlantic in the north and Suriname to the west, where the Maroni (Marowijne) and Litani rivers encompass a disputed border area.  Approximately 90% of the country is blanketed by scarcely populated equatorial forest, which rises gradually from the coastal strip toward the modest Tumac-Humac Mountains on the Brazilian frontier. Most Guianais live along the Atlantic coast, and the area contains most of the country's limited road network. The coast comprises mainly mangrove swamp with a few sandy beaches. Fauna includes monkeys, caimans, tapirs, ocelots and anteaters.  French Guiana is a wet country: even when it's not raining, the air hangs heavy with humidity. The country's tropical rainforests top out at around 30 C (85 F) and receive over 250cm (100in) of rain per annum. The rain falls heaviest from January to June, with May seeing the worst of it. Cayenne, the capital, and Guiana's other Atlantic coast settlements are less muggy than inland areas, but that's not saying much.  
south_america_french_guiana_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: All visitors except EU nationals and citizens of Switzerland and the USA require a visa.Health risks: Cholera, dengue fever, hepatitis, malaria, typhoid, yellow feverTime: GMT/UTC minus 3 hoursElectricity: 220/127V, 50HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  French Guiana is a tropical country with a serious rainy season. While the July to December 'dry' period may be the most comfortable time to go, Carnaval - usually held in late February - is French Guiana's greatest cultural attraction. August to November is the best time for jaunts into the jungle. The leatherback turtles come out near Mana between April and September.     Events  Festive Carnaval is the highlight of the calendar, as outrageous Caribbean-style parades and parties are fused with a certain French savoir faire. Usually held in late February, Carnaval features festivities every weekend from Epiphany and for four days solid before Ash Wednesday. The best place to experience the events of Carnaval is Cayenne.    
south_america_french_guiana_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This village of Hmong refugees, transplanted from Laos to the American tropics in the 1970s, lies some 75km (50mi) west of the Cayenne-Regina paved highway. The fascinating Sunday market held here features Hmong embroidery and weaving and delicious local noodle soups.  
south_america_guyana_activities.html:  Activities  There's a brace of tour operators in Georgetown specializing in overland camping treks to Kaieteur and Orinduik falls, horse riding and hiking in the Rupununi and rainforest, fishing and jungle treks at the Timberhead resort, as well as river trips and whitewater rafting on the Essequibo, Kamuni and Mazaruni rivers. There's also good swimming at Bartica, and birdwatching at Lethem.  
south_america_guyana_attractions.html:  Attractions  Guyana's capital and only large city lies on the east bank at the mouth of the Demerrara River. Georgetown had a miserable beginning, but developed into an attractive colonial city distinguished by gracious colonial architecture. Today, parts of the city, notably the central area and the botanic and zoological gardens are well-maintained, but the rest of the city is weathered and dilapidated. A profusion of flowering trees lend it the somewhat optimistic name 'Garden City of the Caribbean', despite its location on the Atlantic coast. A long sea wall protects the city from flooding; locals pass their time there swimming, sunbathing and strolling arm-in-arm.  Most of the sights are on or near Main St, including the Gothic-style St George's Cathedral, reputedly the world's tallest wooden cathedral, and the neoclassic Parliament Building, built in 1833. Much of the city center is dwarfed by the Stabroek Market, an imposing cast-iron building with a striking clocktower. Good value also are the idiosyncratic Museum of Guyana, which has exhibitions of excellent Guyanese paintings and sculpture, and the Botanical Gardens & Zoo, a beautifully laid out enclosure of Victorian bridges, pavilions, palms and lily ponds.  Budget accommodation, cheap food joints, jazz bars, clubs and discos are all close to Main St.  
south_america_guyana_environment.html:  Environment  Roughly the size of the UK, Guyana is bordered by Venezuela to the west, Suriname to the east, and overshadowed by Brazil to the south. Its northern coast abuts the Atlantic Ocean. The country's most prominent geological feature is the Guiana Shield, a vast crystalline upland north of the R o Solim es, the Amazon's major channel. From Mt Roraima (2772m/9092ft), on the Brazilian border, the shield recedes in steps all the way to the coast. Thick rainforest covers great chunks of the interior, though southwestern Guyana features extensive grassland. About 90% of the population lives on the agriculturally rich coastal plain.  Guyana's varied and spectacular wildlife includes brightly-plumed birds and mammals such as tapirs, ocelots and monkeys. The equatorial climate results in high temperatures, tempered by cooling sea breezes. There are two rainy seasons: from May to mid-August and from mid-November to mid-January.  The interior regions, which were never dominated by Europeans, retain some of the world's best remaining tropical forests, although these ecosystems are constantly threatened by both uncontrolled gold-mining and logging by multinational timber companies.  The US Trade and Development Agency and a US firm are conducting a feasibility study for a US$180,000 hydroelectric plant at Amaila Falls. The projected power plant, about 193km (120mi) north of Kaieteur Falls, would supply the national grid and other users with energy.  
south_america_guyana_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Visitors from most countries, including North America, most of Western Europe, Australia and the Commonwealth Caribbean, do not require a visaHealth risks: Malaria is endemic in the interior; some risk of cholera, dengue fever and typhoidTime: GMT/UTC minus 4 hoursElectricity: 100V (Georgetown), 220V (most other places)Weights & measures: Officially metric (although imperial measures are still widely used) When to Go  The best time to visit Guyana may be at the end of either rainy season, in late January or late August, when the discharge of water over Kaieteur Falls is greatest. Some locals recommend mid-October to mid-May, which may be wet, but not as hot. If you want to travel overland to the interior, come during the dry seasons.     Events  The national celebrations marking Republic Day (February) last about a week and are the most important cultural event of the year. Hindu and Muslim religious festivals are also celebrated and include Phagwah (early March) and Divali (November).    
south_america_guyana_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  A friendly mining town south of Georgetown, Bartica is the base for exploring surrounding gold and diamond fields, roughing it by foot and truck to Kaieteur Falls, and trekking into the interior. The swimming is good and the local market colorful and lively.  
south_america_lima_activities.html:  Activities  If the polluted waterways in Lima itself deter you from swimming (the best beaches are found south of Lima), you can go diving. Sailboat rides to nearby islands are reasonably popular and if you've been indulging in Lima's cafe and restaurant scene a bit too much, there are tennis and golf clubs to help burn off that extra girth. If the slower paced activity of retail therapy seems more your style, then Lima has a plethora of shopping malls, boutique stores and markets just waiting to tear you from your hard earned cash.  
south_america_lima_attractions.html:  Attractions  Lima has more than 50 museums, but most visitors will be restricted to visiting just a handful. In that case make sure you don't miss the Museo de Oro del Peru. This building is actually two museums rolled into one. Its massive Gold Museum will blow you away with thousands of gold pieces, each uniquely sculptured into something different from ear plugs to clothing decorations. This is very high up on most visitors' must-see list. The Arms Museum at the top of the building is one of the world's best with thousands of ancient firearms from all over the world. It's beggars belief that some of these clumsy looking old guns were once quite effective.  
south_america_lima_facts.html:  When to Go  From April to December the coastal fog blankets the sun in a fine, grey mist. From January to March, daytime temperatures are warm but the humidity can be uncomfortable. Rainfall in Lima is very low all year round. Perhaps the best time to visit is around March and April, when the sun is still shining, or in early December, before it gets too sticky.     Events  Lima goes off on 30 August, when it celebrates the Santa Rosa de Lima, one giant street procession honouring the patron saint of Lima and the Americas. El Senor de los Milagros (Lord of the Miracles) is heralded by a huge religious procession where all the people wear purple. In late July the entire country is on the go as Peruvians celebrate Fiestas Patrias (Peru's independence) and Lima is no exception with lively street parties and festivals.    
south_america_lima_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This site, about 40km (25mi) south-east of Lima, was considered one of the most important religious monuments by the indigenous people of the central Andes. The primary architectural unit is the walled enclosure containing a stepped pyramid, storage structures and patios. The site was built around two perpendicular avenues, which cross one another at the centre of the site. Numerous Huari-influenced designs appear on the ceramics and textiles of Pachacamac's large cemetery. At the height of its powers Pachacamac covered around 85 hectares. Most of the site's architectural compounds and pyramids were constructed from around 800CE to 1450. Following the expansion of the Inca empire, Pachacamac became an important Inca administrative centre, while maintaining its status as a religious shrine. The Incas built five separate complexes there, including the Pyramid of the Sun and the Mamacuna. The latter contains fine Inca masonry in its entrance gate, a rarity on the coast. The site's name derives from the Quechua term for the coastal deity, Pacha Camac ('he who vitalises the universe'). The main temple at the site was dedicated to this deity and held a famous oracle. Pilgrims travelled to the centre from great distances, and its cemetery was considered sacrosanct. The site of Pachacamac has been preserved, and one of the Inca structures, the Mamacuna, has been reconstructed. A must-see for architecture and archaeology buffs.  
south_america_montevideo_activities.html:  Activities  One of Uruguay's favorite pastimes is dancing the tango. No trip to Montevideo would be complete without a night out on the dance floor. Soccer is an absolute passion among Montevide os, having hosted the game's first ever World Cup in 1930 (which they won). Catch a game at the Estadio Centenario stadium between local rivals Atletico Penarol and Nacional for a truly scary sporting experience. For something less tribal, Montevideo has a lively theater community, while Afro-Uruguayan candombe music is popular, unique and sets the hips wriggling.  
south_america_montevideo_attractions.html:  Attractions  Montevideo's port market was the continent's finest when it opened back in 1868, but today it survives on personality and atmosphere, of which there are plenty. The old port market building is an impressive wrought-iron superstructure which houses outstanding seafood restaurants as well as the more traditional grills that sell parillas (choose your cut off the grill). If you like your food carnivorous, this place will set the drool glands racing. It's open only in the afternoons, and Saturday is a particularly lively and colorful day, with artists, craftspeople and street musicians plying their trade and just hanging out with other Uruguayans. For the thirsty, there is also the Montevideo speciality medio y medio, a popular knockout blend of sparkling and white wines.  
south_america_montevideo_facts.html:  When to Go  Uruguay's major tourist attraction is its beaches, so most visitors come in summer (Dec-Feb), with the majority being Argentines or Brazilians on vacation. Montevideo's urban attractions are open year-round and the climate remains temperate and mild, even in winter. The heat can be smothering along the R o Uruguay in summer, but the interior hill country offers slightly cooler conditions, especially at night.     Events  For those who can't make it to the mayhem of Rio's most famous of Carnivals, Montevideo's Carnaval de Uruguay is a showpiece of Uruguay's proud arts community. The opening parade takes place on the Monday and Tuesday preceding Ash Wednesday in February, giving Montevideo's often-staid reputation a battering as a brace of drummers and costumed revelers advance along its streets. The festival runs unabated for another 40 days, making it by far Uruguay's biggest party and popular celebration.  Also popular are the La Semana Criolla festivities during Semana Santa or Holy Week (Easter), which take place at the Parque Prado, north of downtown. Because Uruguay is a secular country, official Holy Week celebrations are more nationalistic than religious. Therefore, the festivities center on traditional activities like asados (barbecues), folk music and displays of gaucho skills such as horse-breaking and cowboy stunt riding. During July there's the International Festival of Children's Cinema, a godsend for anyone traveling with children.    
south_america_montevideo_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Any place where the motorists stop for pedestrians must have something to recommend it. But Colonia has much more to it than simply being a friendly place. It is a remarkable town full of historical significance. Its colonial streets, shaded by sycamores from the summer heat, contain treasures such as the superb 17th-century Portuguese contraband port, La Colonia Portuguesa, and fortress of Colonia. Popular with Argentines, it is something of an unappreciated gem along the foreign tourism route but is gaining an ever-greater audience. Close enough to Buenos Aires across the Rio de la Plata to almost smell it (less than an hour by hydrofoil) and an easy day trip from Montevideo, Colonia is an absolute must-see.  
south_america_paraguay_activities.html:  Activities  There are several hiking trails in Ybycu and nature trails in the Parque National Cerro Cor . The fishing and camping are good at Villa Florida, while swimming and water sports are popular at Lago Ypacar , whose waters are thought to have heady curative powers. If you want to bust a gut, try climbing the 500m (1640ft) Cerro Le n or take an expedition into the Chaco wilderness (remember to bring plentiful supplies of food, water and fuel).  
south_america_paraguay_attractions.html:  Attractions  Asunci n, the capital and largest city, is built on unassuming hills above the east bank of the R o Paraguay. Most of the city's key sights are found within an area bound by the riverfront, Avenida Col n in the west, calles Haedo and Luis A Herrera in the south, and Estados Unidos to the east. There are few colonial remains and little attempt at zoning, so the city has become a jumble of new, eclectic buildings and squatter settlements along the riverfront and the railway.  It's now safe to approach and photograph the Palacio de Gobierno, which is a major improvement on the situation which existed during El Supremo's Rodr guez de Francia's rule - he ordered anyone gazing upon the palace to be shot on sight. Nearby is the Casa Viola, one of the few surviving colonial buildings, which is now a museum. Other city sights include the Casa de Cultura Paraguaya, the 19th-century Cathedral and its museum, and the Casa de la Independencia, Asunci n's oldest building (1772) and site of the declaration of independence. There are also excellent parks, such as the Jard n Bot nico, and the Museo del Barro, the city's foremost repository of modern art. Asunci n's zoo - once a wretched, dingy place of small, smelly cages filled with unkempt animals - has reportedly improved under a new management plan and is seeking to properly house the unique flora and fauna of Paraguay.  Budget accommodation and cheap eats are mostly to be found in the city center, towards the riverfront, or in neighborhoods to the east. Porn flicks and kung-fu extravaganzas dominate cinema viewing but there's good live theater or music at a number of cultural centers. The shopping is best along calles Col n, Pettirossi, Palma and Estrella.  
south_america_paraguay_environment.html:  Environment  Paraguay is a landlocked country surrounded by Brazil, Argentina and Bolivia. The country is divided into two unequal portions by the R o Paraguay, the third largest river in the western hemisphere. To the west of the river is the Chaco, a largely infertile and sparsely populated tract of land that makes up nearly 60% of the country's area. To the east, where almost all the population is concentrated, is a well-watered, elevated plateau of grasslands, with patches of subtropical forest stretching all the way to the R o Paran on the Brazilian and Argentinian borders.  Wildlife is diverse and includes a number of birds such as the parrot and parakeet, wood stork, hyacinth macaw and the once-thought-to-be-extinct Chacoan peccary, plus large reptiles such as caiman, anaconda and the boa constrictor. However, due to the dense human population of rural eastern Paraguay, mammals such as the giant anteater, maned wolf, Brazilian tapir and jaguar are fast disappearing.  The climate in eastern Paraguay is humid, with rainfall evenly distributed throughout the year. Temperatures are almost universally hot in summer (January to March), averaging 35 C (95 F), but can drop as low as 5 C (41 F) in winter (July to September). Frosts at this time are not uncommon, but there is little or no snowfall. Temperatures are higher in the Chaco and the rainfall is more erratic.  
south_america_paraguay_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: For a stay of up to three months, foreigners from neighboring countries (who only need national ID cards), most Western European countries and the USA do not require a visa. Canadians, Australians and New Zealanders also need a spotlessly clean police record, a bank statement and a US$10 fee.Health risks: Cholera, cutaneous leishmaniasis, dengue fever, hepatitis, hookworm, malaria, tuberculosis and typhoidTime: GMT/UTC minus 3 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Evenly distributed throughout the year, rainfall in Paraguay is at its heaviest near the Brazilian border and July is the coldest month.  Paraguay's celebration of Carnival in February is liveliest in Asunci n. The religious center of Caacupe is the most important site for the Roman Catholic Immaculate Conception.     Events  Prominent celebrations in addition to Christmas, New Year's Day and Easter include: D a de San Blas (Patron Saint of Paraguay) in February; Paz del Chaco (End of the Chaco War) in June; and the Fundaci n de Asunci n (Founding of Asunci n) in August.    
south_america_paraguay_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  During the War of the Triple Alliance, the village of Piribebuy, east of Asunci n, served as the national capital. Today it is a quiet backwater, notable only for an excellent church, a strong local drink called ca a, and an interesting museum that is opened on request by a Chaco War veteran. Wounded three times by Bolivian bullets, the man will gingerly take you around a number of deteriorating exhibitions - then lead you to his own bloodied and torn uniform on display.  
south_america_peru_activities.html:  Activities  Trekking and mountaineering are popular during the May to September dry season in the Andes. The most popular hike on the continent is the 33km (20mi) Inca Trail, west of Cuzco. Equipment can be rented in Cuzco and the trek takes three days. Huaraz, north of Lima, is the climbing and trekking center of Peru and the site of Huascar , at 6768m (22,199ft) the highest mountain in the country. Equipment, drivers and guides are readily available; the best time for hiking is June to August.   Jungle treks can be arranged at Iquitos. Guides will probably approach you but their quality and reliability varies considerably so try to get a recommendation or a reference, and proceed with caution. The better companies that run jungle lodges can provide reputable guides. Treks can last anywhere from a day to over a week; bring plenty of mosquito repellent.  The R o Urubamba, near Cuzco, has white-water rafting possibilities. Yarinacocha has pleasant canoeing. The Peninsula de Paracs and nearby Islas Ballestas have the best-known bird and marine sanctuaries on the Peruvian coast, plus there's great swimming from secluded beaches from January to March. Tours to the sanctuaries are available daily and are relatively cheap. There are bodegas ( wineries) to visit in the city of Ica, on the south coast, and guided tours to Colca Canyon, near the city of Arequipa.  
south_america_peru_attractions.html:  Attractions  Lima, Peru's capital, is overcrowded, polluted, noisy and often has wretched weather. Nevertheless, the inhabitants are friendly and hospitable, opportunities for dining and nightlife are ample and the city has a great selection of museums. A project is now underway to restore the city's colonial center, so Lima may be a lot lovelier in the near future.  Attractions include the Museo de Arte, which exhibits colonial furniture and pre-Columbian artifacts as well as 400 years of Peruvian art, and the Museo Nacional de Antropolog a y Arquelog a, noted for its excellent exhibits of prehistoric Peru. Churches such as San Francisco (famous for its catacombs) and Santo Domingo (circa 1540) provide a welcome respite from the outside clamor. Lima's many markets, including Polvos Azules, overflow with consumer goods and handicrafts. There are also plazas, lovely colonial buildings and a zoo.  Inexpensive accommodation can be found in the city center. The suburb of Barranco has a number of cheap restaurants and live music venues and is very popular with backpackers. The suburb of Miraflores has the city's best stores, restaurants and nightspots.  
south_america_peru_environment.html:  Environment  Peru is in western South America and shares borders with Chile (to the south), Bolivia (southeast), Brazil (northeast), Colombia (north) and Ecuador (northwest). It has three major regions: a narrow coastal belt, the wide Andean mountains and the Amazon Basin. The coastal strip is predominantly desert, but contains Peru's major cities and its best highway, the Carratera Panamericana. The Andes comprise two principal ranges - Cordillera Occidental and Oriental - and includes Huascar n (6770m/22,200ft), Peru's highest mountain. To the east is the Amazon Basin, a region of tropical lowland, which is drained by the Maranon and Ucayali rivers.  Bird and marine life is abundant along Peru's desert coast, with colonies of sea lion, the Humboldt penguin, Chilean flamingo, Peruvian pelican, Inca tern and the brown booby endemic to the region. Common highland birds include the Andean condor, puna ibis and a variety of hummingbird. The highlands are also home to cameloids such as the llama, alpaca, guanaco and vicu a, while the eastern slopes of the Andes are the haunts of jaguars, spectacled bears and tapirs. Peru's flora contains a number of hardy and unique plants, including patches of Polylepis woodland found at extreme heights. The vast wealth of wildlife is protected in a system of national parks and reserves with almost 30 areas covering nearly 7% of the country.  Peru's climate can be divided into two seasons - wet and dry - though this varies, depending on the geographical region. The coast and western Andean slopes are generally dry, with the summer falling between December and April; during the rest of the year, the gar a (coastal fog) moves in and the sun is rarely seen. In the Andes, the dry season is from May to September, while the wet season takes up the remainder of the year. On the eastern slopes of the Andes, the drier months are similar to the highlands, though the wet season (January to April) is more pronounced.  
south_america_peru_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most travelers do not need visas; most nationals are granted a 90-day stay and it can be extendedHealth risks: Altitude sickness, cholera, hepatitis, malaria (in the lowlands), rabies and typhoid. A yellow fever vaccination is essential if you plan to visit the eastern slopes of the Andes or the Amazonian BasinTime: GMT/UTC minus 5 hoursElectricity: 220V, 60HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Peru's peak tourist season is from June to August, which is the dry season in the highlands, and this is the best time to go if you're interested in hiking. Travelers do visit the highlands year-round, though the wettest months, January to April, make trekking a muddy proposition. Many of the major fiestas occur in the wettest months and continue undiminished in spite of heavy rain.  On the coast, Peruvians visit the beaches during the sunny months from late December through March, although few beaches are particularly enticing. The rest of the year, the coast is clothed in mist. In the eastern rainforests, it naturally rains a lot. The wettest months are December through April, though travelers visit year-round since it rarely rains for more than a few hours and there's still plenty of sunshine to enjoy.     Events  Many of the main festivals favor the Roman Catholic liturgical calendar. These are often celebrated with great pageantry, especially in highland Indian villages, where the Catholic feast day is usually linked with a traditional agricultural festival. Some of the major events include: Carnaval (February-March), which is particularly popular in the highlands and features numerous water fights; Inti Raymi (24 June), the greatest of the Inca festivals with spectacular dances and parades; Peru's Independence (28 July); All Souls Day (2 November), celebrated with gifts of food, drink and flowers which are taken to family graves; and Puno Day (5 November), which features flamboyant costumes and street dancing in Puno.    
south_america_peru_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The tiny town of Caraz, east of Chimbote, is one of the few places in the region not to have been ravaged by earthquakes or landslides. It has the attractive Plaza de Armas, several inexpensive hotels and restaurants and, importantly, a number of beautiful walks in the surrounding hills. Caraz is also the finishing point of the popular Llanganuco to Santa Cruz trek and the point of departure for road excursions to the beautiful Laguna Par n and Ca n del Plato  
south_america_rio_de_janeiro_activities.html:  Activities  The Cariocoas are into cycling, and they two-wheel down paths around Lagoa das Freitas, Barra da Tijuca and on the oceanfront from Ipanema to Lema. Surfing is pretty popular with the locals as well - Arpoador, between Copacabana and Ipanema, is where most surfers congregate, though there are some fun breaks further out.  For high times, work up the nerve for some hang-gliding and para-gliding off the 510m (1673ft) Pedra Bonita - you can even arrange a voo duplo (double flight) with a pilot. Less windblown are helicopter flights over the city.  Excellent hiking and climbing are possible close to the city, as there are three national parks within Rio state; there are also good walking and jogging paths in the zona sul. If you're not breathless after all of this, you can check out the area's other numerous offerings - everything from tai chi to tennis is available. And you're sure to see some volleyball on the beach.  
south_america_rio_de_janeiro_attractions.html:  Attractions  Going to the beach is a ritual and way of life for the Carioca. People of every color, class and creed, in all shapes and sizes, congregate waterside. One of the world's most famous beaches, Copacabana, hardly needs any introduction - it's the sensuously spectacular, and very crowded, spot of sand fronting the ocean and backed by steep hills. It's where skin sizzles and shines, cameras forever flash, money streamlessly changes hands and excitement rides through the salty sea air.  Copacabana, so big in concept and fantasy, runs just 4.5km (3mi) along the Atlantic, yet crammed into this narrow strip of land are 25,000 people per sq km, one of the highest population densities in the world. There is always something happening on the beach during the day and along the footpaths at night: drinking, singing, eating and all kinds of people checking out the scene. Tourists watch Brazilians, Brazilians watch tourists; the poor from the favelas eye the rich, while the rich avoid the poor; prostitutes look for tricks and johns look for treats.  Southwest of Copacabana is Arpoador, a small beach with good surfing, even at night when the beach is lit. There's a giant rock that juts out into the ocean where you can enjoy a great view.  
south_america_rio_de_janeiro_facts.html:  When to Go  Rio has a classical tropical climate, so expect some rain. Summer (December to March) is hot with top temperatures ranging from 25 C (77 F) to 40 C (104 F). It can also be dreadfully humid; there are more showers in summer than at other times, but they rarely last long. Winter temperatures range from around 20 C (68 F) to 30 C (86 F), with plenty of good beach days.  Carnaval is often a more important consideration than weather for travelers deciding when to come to Rio. The city is in full party mode, and the excitement on the streets is unsurpassable. However, everyone becomes a little unglued around the time of Carnaval - there are more car accidents than usual, prices are noticeably more expensive and you won't have a moment alone. Still, it is Carnaval.     Events  The streets of Rio go tchica-tchica-bum! when Carnaval comes to town for five heady days that begin at midnight on the Friday before Ash Wednesday. Every year, wealthy and spaced-out foreigners descend on Rio en masse to get drunk, get high, bag some sun and exchange exotic diseases. Dancing, parades, head-dresses and bare breasts are all part of the spectacle.  The four-day Carnival commences on the following dates: March 1 2003; Feb 21 2004; Feb 5 2005.  The Festas Juninas in June is one of the most important folkloric festivals in Brazil. In Rio, it's celebrated in various public squares throughout the month. Music, colorful stalls and a procession into the streets mark the Festa de NS da Gl ria do Outeiro on August 15. Every Sunday in October, the lively Festa da Penha is one of the largest religious and popular festivals in the city. Not surprisingly, the year ends with a bang on New Year's Eve & Festa de Iemanj, as millions of people celebrate while tons of fireworks explode in the glittering sky.    
south_america_rio_de_janeiro_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This is the most isolated and unspoiled beach close to the city. With mountains and natural vegetation, this beautiful setting is quiet during the week, but packed on weekends with Cariocas looking to get away from the city-beach chaos. Part of this stretch (4km/2.5mi) has been set aside as an Environmental Protection Area, which should stop it from becoming more cheesecake for the rich. Cinema buffs should note that scenes from the movie Blame it on Rio were filmed here.  Other beaches down south include Recreio, Prainha and Marambaia, which are all very beautiful and worth exploring. They are not easily accessible by public transportation and only get busy on the weekends. Prainha is one of the best surfing beaches in Rio.  
south_america_santiago_activities.html:  Activities  Santiago has its fair share of outdoor activities. Although downtown's heavy traffic makes for unpleasant cycling, you can put the foot to the pedal in the suburbs and surrounding areas like the Caj n del Maipo. Public pools in Santiago tend to be pricey, but if you need to take a cooling dip try swimming at Parque O'Higgins. You can ace the love game at the International Sporting Club and Club de Tenis Estadio Nacional tennis courts. You can also be a spectator and watch soccer at the Estadio Nacional in u oa or horse racing at the Club H pico de Santiago. If you like your outdoor activities a bit more rugged, various organizations can help you climb and hike. One of Santiago's more uncommon entertainments is the Rodelbahn, a toboggan on wheels in the heights of the eastern suburb of La Reina. If all this exertion isn't your cup of tea, throw back some of the Chilean corked stuff in wine classes or widen your vocabulary with some Spanish language courses.  
south_america_santiago_attractions.html:  Attractions  Most of Santiago's sights are squeezed into the triangular-shaped historic core, bounded by the R o Mapocho, the Alameda and V a Norte Sur. The area's focus and the city's historic center is Plaza de Armas, flanked by imposing public buildings like the main post office, town hall and national museum. Pride of place goes to the Catedral Metropolitana, nudging the square's northwest edge. It was begun in 1745 and later embellished with baroque features designed by Joaqu n Toesca. The Italian-born architect was also responsible for designing one of the city's landmark buildings, the Palacio de La Moneda, a couple of blocks southwest. The former royal mint became the residence of Chilean presidents in the mid-19th century, and was famously photographed ablaze during the September 11, 1973, coup. President Allende died in La Moneda during the coup.  On the northern edge of the triangle is one of the city's more colorful attractions, the wrought-iron Mercado Central (central market) - a great place to splurge on seafood. Near the centro's apex is the welcome green expanse of Cerro Santa Luc a, a very handy hilltop sanctuary honeycombed with 65 hectares (160 acres) of gardens, footpaths and fountains. The park's Alameda frontage is notable for its tiled mural of Nobel Prize-winning poet Gabriela Mistral and the attractive Plaza Neptuno, whose staircases encircle French fountains and eventually lead to the summit and its parapet views of the city (smog permitting).  Santiago Centro is also known for its swag of top museums. The best would have to be the Museo Arqueol gico de Santiago, which features outstanding exhibits on Chile's indigenous peoples. The Museo de Santiago documents the city's sprawl with paintings, maps, dioramas, costume and models. Around 4500 years of pre-Columbian civilization is examined in the Museo Chileno de Arte Precolombino, and the Palacio de Bellas Artes takes care of the city's 19th-century art collection. Probably the most elaborate of Santiago's 19th-century mansions currently open to the public is Palacio Cousi o, near Parque Almagro. Dating from 1871, this homage to the elite is embellished with French artworks and features one of Chile's first elevators.  
south_america_santiago_facts.html:  When to Go  Santiago and its surrounds are at their best in the verdant spring (September-November) or during the fall harvest (late February-April). If you're a skier, June-August is the time to hit the Chilean ski resorts. September includes the anniversaries of contentious dates like Pinochet's military coup (September 11) and Armed Forces Day (September 19), which can result in civil disturbances - they're rarely more than just inconvenient, but it's best to steer clear.     Events  Santiago ain't no party town, although November's Semana de Barrio Brasil festival raises the stakes a little. When it comes to special events it seems the capital's favorite pastime is trade fairs. If you're a bibliophile you might enjoy the Feria de Libro (Book Festival) in early November; authors the caliber of Peru's Mario Vargas Llosa have been known to attend. Then there's the highly successful Expo Nuevo Mundo Rural, an exhibition of Chilean agricultural products. It shows everything from llama goods to the fruits of Middle Chile and the woolens of Tierra del Fuego. Burgeoning entrepreneurs shouldn't miss Santiago's biggest and longest-running event, the Feria Internacional de Santiago (Santiago International Fair).   Public holidays January 1 - A o Nuevo (New Year) March/April - Semana Santa (Easter Week) May 1 - D a del Trabajo (Labor Day) May 21 - Glorias Navales (commemorating the naval Battle of Iquique) mid-June - Corpus Christi June 29 - D a de San Pedro y San Pablo (St Peter & St Paul's Day) August 15 - Asunci n de la Virgen (Assumption) early September - D a de la Unidad Nacional (Day of National Unity) September 18 - D a de la Independencia Nacional (National Independence Day) September 19 - D a del Ejercito (Armed Forces Day) October 12 - D a de la Raza (Columbus Day) November 1 - Todo los Santos (All Saints' Day) December 8 - Immaculada Concepci n (Immaculate Conception) December 25 - Navidad (Christmas Day)back to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementGuides to SantiagoTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
south_america_santiago_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The canyon of the R o Maipo is southeast of Santiago, and easily accessible by public transport. Hordes of santiaguinos head out here on weekends for some recreation, whether it's camping, hiking, climbing, whitewater rafting, skiing or cycling. The easygoing village of Pirque is one of the canyon's gateways, drawing in the throngs with its weekend craft market and Vi a Concha y Toro wine tours. A tributary canyon on the Maipo has been taken over by the Reserva Nacional R o Clarillo, one of the closest nature reserves to the capital. Its forested waterway is home to the endangered Chilean iguana. Further upriver there's San Alfonso and its Cascada de las Animas, a private nature reserve that successfully defied the Chilean government's plans to ram a natural gas pipeline through it. It's a former fundo (aristocrat's rural estate), and operates a campground and caba as, day trips and outdoor activities. Buses head out to Caj n del Maipo every 30 minutes from the Parque O'Higgins metro station.  
south_america_suriname_activities.html:  Activities  Suriname exemplary system of national parks and nature reserves is superb (although the infrastructure is not). Visitors interested in visiting the reserves should contact Stinasu (the Foundation for Nature Preservation) in Paramaribo.  Standing atop the Voltzberg dome at sunrise is mind-bendingly spectaular and watching wildlife such as giant leatherback sea turtles lay their eggs is breathtaking.  Even parsimonious travelers should take advantage of guided trips to Suriname's rainforest and coastal reserves, to which access can otherwise be difficult. It is possible to travel up the rivers in small boats navigated by Maroons, and boats travel along the coast between assorted towns.  
south_america_suriname_attractions.html:  Attractions  Suriname's capital Paramaribo (often abbreviated to 'Parbo') is a curious hybrid of northern Europe and tropical America. Imposing brick buildings overlook grassy squares and wooden houses crowd narrow streets, but towering palms shade some areas and mangroves still hug the riverside. Mosques and synagogues sit side by side, while Javanese vendors peddle satay and Dutch-speaking Creoles guzzle beer at sidewalk cafes.  Central Paramaribo's focus is the Onafhankelijksplein (Independence Square), fronting the Presidential Palace. Immediately behind the palace is the Palmentuin, an attractive park with tall palms inhabited by tropical birds. To the east is Fort Zeelandia, a 17-century riverside fortification used for the detention and torture of political prisoners after the coup of 1980. The main market is found on the riverside boulevard, Waterkrant, and ferries for Meerzog, on the other side of the river, leave from nearby.  
south_america_suriname_environment.html:  Environment  Suriname lies on the northern coast of South America, squeezed in between Guyana and French Guiana to the west and east, and Brazil to the south. The majority of Surinamese inhabit the Atlantic coast, where most of the country's few roads are located. The densely forested interior is accessible only by air or via the north-south rivers, though rapids limit the navigability of most rivers.  Temperature and humidity are high. The major rainy season is from April to July, with a shorter one in December and January.  
south_america_suriname_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Virtually all visitors require a visa. There are Surninamese embassies in the Netherlands, Germany and the US. Visitors from other countries can obtain visas on arrivalHealth risks: Malaria, rabies, typhoid, dengue fever, choleraTime: GMT/UTC minus 3 hoursWeights & measures: Officially metric but, in practice, imperial measurements are used. When to Go  Suriname's dry seasons, from early February to late April and from mid-August to early December, are the best times for a visit. From March to July, several species of sea turtles come ashore to nest at Wia Wia and Galibi reserves.     Events  The Hindu New Year's festival, Holi Phagwah, is held in March or April, while the Muslim holiday Id ul fitr celebrates the end of fasting at Ramadan.    
south_america_suriname_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Albina is a small, run-down village on the Marowijne River, the border with French Guiana. With permission from the Carib Indians (and a hired canoe), it is possible to visit the nearby Galibi Nature Reserve, where Ridley, green and leatherback turtles nest in June and July. Albina has no accommodation but it may be possible to find a bed in a private house or sling a hammock in the park.  
south_america_uruguay_activities.html:  Activities   Yachting, boating, fishing and watersports are excellent at Carmelo and Mercedes. There are also sandy beaches and pellucid waters at the resort of Punta del Este, and thermal baths at Termas de Guaviy . Short walks abound around Piri polis, while dune walking is a popular pastime in the remote Cabo Polonia.  
south_america_uruguay_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital and only large city sprawls along the banks of the R o de la Plata, almost directly opposite Buenos Aires. It's a picturesque place of colonial Spanish, Italian and Art Deco styles. Most attention is focused on the Ciudad Vieja, the old city built on a peninsula close to the port and harbor, and the commercial center, located around Plaza Independencia to the east.  To get your bearings in the city center, take a walk from Plaza Independencia, the grandest of Montevideo's squares, through the Ciudad Vieja to the port. On the plaza is the black-marbled Mauseleo de Artigas, topped by an enormous statue of the national hero, and the 26-story Palacio Salvo, the tallest building in South America when built in 1927 and still the tallest in the city today. The Plaza Constituci n, neoclassical Cabildo and the Iglesia Matriz, the oldest public building (1799) in the city, are further west.  Other important sights in the area include the Museo Hist rico Nacional, which consists of four different homes filled with historical effects, and the Museo del Gaucho y de la Moneda, which houses an impressive display of artefacts from Uruguay's gaucho (cowboy) past. Also, don't miss the Mercado del Puerto, once the finest port in South America, and now a colorful, lively center filled with markets, restaurants, artists and street musicians. The Feria de Trist n Narvaja is an outdoor market peddling groceries, antiques and souvenirs. A handful of sandy beaches stretch along the metropolitan waterfront and are popular excursions for the city's residents on summer weekends.  Inexpensive accommodation, eateries, nightclubs and theaters are found in the Ciudad Vieja, while the best shopping is along Avenida 18 de Julio, which runs eastwards from the old city.  
south_america_uruguay_environment.html:  Environment  Uruguay - the smallest Hispanic country in South America - is boxed into the eastern coast of South America by Brazil to the north and Argentina to the west. To the south is the wide estuary of the R o de la Plata, while the Atlantic Ocean washes its eastern shore. For the most part, the country's undulating topography is an extension of that in southern Brazil, and includes two lowly ranges - the Cuchilla de Haedo and the Cuchilla Grande. The terrain levels out west of Montevideo, while east of the capital are impressive beaches, dunes and headlands. Five rivers flow westward across the country and drain into the R o Uruguay.  The country's flora consists mostly of grasslands, with little forest except on the banks of its rivers and streams. In the southeast, along the Brazilian border, are lingering traces of palm savanna. Wild animals are scarce, although rhea (a bird-like ostrich) can still be seen in areas near major tributaries.  The climate is temperate, even in winter, and frosts are almost unknown. Winter (June to September) temperatures range from 10 to 16 C (50 to 61 F), while summer (December to March) temperatures are between 21 to 28 C (70 to 82 F). Rainfall, evenly distributed throughout the year, averages about 1m (3ft) over the entire country.  
south_america_uruguay_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most foreigners require a visa, except nationals from neighboring countries, Western Europe, Israel, Japan, South Africa and the USA. All visitors need a tourist card, which is valid for 90 days and extendable for a similar period.Health risks: HepatitisTime: GMT/UTC minus 3 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Uruguay's main attraction is its beaches, so most visitors come in summer. Along the littoral, summer temperatures are smotheringly hot, but the hilly interior is cooler, especially at night.     Events  The country's show-stopper is the annual Carnaval, which takes place on the Monday and Tuesday immediately preceding Ash Wednesday. Montevideo's staid reputation takes a battering during this time as a brace of drummers and costumed revelers advance along its streets. Holy Week (Easter) or La Semana Criolla offers traditional activities like asados (barbecues), horse-breaking, cowboy stunt riding and folk music.    
south_america_uruguay_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  About 120km (74mi) west of Montevideo dozes the quiet destination of Colonia Suiza. Founded in 1862 by Swiss settlers, it became Uruguay's first interior agricultural colony, churning out wheat for the mills in Montevideo. It still retains a distinctive European ambience today and produces the bulk of the country's dairy products.  
south_america_venezuela_activities.html:  Activities  Venezuela's 40-odd national parks provide a great range of treks, from well-signposted jaunts to jungle paths that should not be attempted without a machete and some local knowledge. Parque Nacional El vila, which looms over Caracas, is probably a good place to start; head for Guatopo, Terepaima and San Esteban for less developed trails. The Sierra Nevada de Merida is the best region in the country for mountaineering, hill trekking and rock climbing; guides and equipment are available for hire. Merida is also the best place to go hang-gliding and paragliding. There are beautiful beaches and snorkeling opportunities all along the Caribbean coast. Tucacas is the best diving center. Speleologists should check out the Cueva del Gu charo, the most spectacular of Venezuela's many cave systems. It's a three-hour bus ride inland from Cuman .  
south_america_venezuela_attractions.html:  Attractions  Situated in a picturesque valley on the north coast, Venezuela's capital is a bustling metropolis of nearly 5 million inhabitants. Fast, progressive and cosmopolitan, the city is now highly 'Yankeefied,' retaining little of the character of its colonial roots. While it boasts some of the most impressive modern architecture in South America, Caracas is also home to a vast expanse of ranchos - sprawling slums of tin sheds and cardboard boxes covering the surrounding hills that are the product of the uncontrolled surge of postwar immigration.  Sights include Plaza Bol var, with its 17th-century cathedral; the Casa Natal de Bol var, birthplace of Sim n Bol var; Santa Capilla, a 19th-century neo-Gothic church modeled on Paris's Sainte Chapelle; the monumental Palacio de Miraflores, palace of former leader Joaqu n Crespo; the sacred Pante n Nacional, where many eminent Venezuelans are interred; the Petares district, which has retained its historic colonial character; and the modern, bustling Parque Central, which provides a taste of modern Caracas.  Most of the budget hotel accommodations are in the less salubrious suburbs, which are not always safe, especially at night. The best is probably Sabana Grande. Be sure to always keep your wits about you, as mugging and petty theft have become rife in recent years.  Nightlife tends to be centered around the districts of Las Mercedes, El Rosal, La Floresta and La Castellana. Enjoy a beer at the Greenwich Pub, or catch some jazz at the Juan Sebasti n Bar, one of the city's few authentic jazz venues.  
south_america_venezuela_environment.html:  Environment  Venezuela is situated on the northern coast of South America, north of Brazil and between Colombia and Guyana. The southeast is dominated by the Guayana Highlands, and a further 30% of the country is taken up by the vast grassland plain of the central Llanos, which is drained by South America's third-largest river, the R o Orinoco. The continent's largest inland lake, Lake Maracaibo, lies in the northwest, surrounded by marshy, fertile lowlands. South of the lake rise the northern end of the Andes, known here as the Cordillera de Los Andes, which climb to 5007m (16,423ft) at Pico Bol var. Boggy highland meadows in the Andes, known as p ramos, are home to some of Venezuela's most amazing plant species. Equally diverse flora can be found on the tepuis (huge flat-topped mountains) in the southeast of the country, particularly Roraima.  The country's climate is predominantly tropical, with a warm temperate zone extending along the coast. Temperatures rarely vary more than a few degrees (Caracas 18-20 C/64-68 F; Maracaibo 27-29 C/81-84 F); consequently, Venezuela's climatic zones are defined by rainfall rather than by differences in temperature. The northern coastal lowlands are relatively arid, but rainfall increases over the Llanos and the Guayana Highlands, with average yearly readings reaching 150cm (58in) in both regions. The dry season (called the verano) extends from December to April, and the wet season (invierno) covers the remainder of the year. The Amazon region has no distinct dry season, and annual rainfall exceeds 200cm (78in), distributed evenly throughout the year. The dry season is more pleasant for traveling, particularly if you plan on hiking.  
south_america_venezuela_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: US nationals, Canadians, Australians, New Zealanders, UK nationals, South Africans and most Western and Scandinavian Europeans do not require a visa if they fly directly to Venezuela. All foreigners entering Venezuela by land require a valid visa; get one before you leave for South America.Health risks: Cholera, dengue fever, hepatitis, malaria, yellow feverTime: GMT/UTC minus 4 hours (minus 5 hours in summer)Electricity: 110V, 60 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  The tourist season in Venezuela runs year-round so, theoretically, any time you visit is OK. However, the dry season is more pleasant for traveling, though some sights - including the famous Angel Falls - are certainly more impressive in the wet season.  Also keep in mind the periods during which Venezuelans take their holidays. They are mad about traveling to visit friends and family over Christmas, Carnaval (several days prior to Ash Wednesday) and Semana Santa (Holy Week; the week before Easter Sunday). In these three periods, you'll have to plan ahead and do a little more legwork before you find a place to stay. On the other hand, these periods are colorful and alive with a host of festivities.     Events  The country's largest, most exuberant festival is Carnaval, which takes place on the Monday and Tuesday preceding Ash Wednesday. Characterized by music, dancing, parades and masquerades, the flavor of the event varies from region to region. The town of Car pano is famous throughout the country for its elaborately staged Carnaval.  Given the strong Roman Catholic character of Venezuela, most other national celebrations are tied to the Christian calendar. Apart from Easter, Christmas and Corpus Christi, which are celebrated enthusiastically, there are many saints' days spread over the calendar year celebrated in various cities and towns.   Public Holidays January 1 - New Year's Day Before Easter Sunday - Maundy Thursday & Good Friday April 19 - Declaration of Independence May 1 - Labor Day June 24 - Battle of Carabobo July 5 - Independence Day July 24 - Bol var's Birthday October 12 - Discovery of America December 25 - Christmasback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to VenezuelaTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Chasing Rickshaws with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
south_america_venezuela_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Lost amid the rolling forests of the Cordillera de la Costa, some 60km (37mi) west of Caracas, is the unusual mountain town of Colonia Tovar. Founded in 1843 by a group of German settlers, the town effectively shielded itself from any outside contact for almost a century: A lack of roads restricted access, and rigid social mores meant that the inhabitants remained exclusively tied to their own culture (marriage, for instance, was prohibited unless to another member of the colony). Only in the 1940s was the Spanish language introduced; a serviceable road wasn't built until 1963. Today, Colonia Tovar is a lovely town of produce markets and arts-and-craft stores and is still unmistakably German. Much of the original architecture remains, and foods, such as bread and sausage, continue to be made according to hoary German recipes.  
south_east_asia_bali_attractions.html:  Attractions  Including the two beach sites of Kuta and Legian, this area is a major drawcard for travellers, offering cheap accommodation, Western food, great shopping, surf, sunsets and riotous nightlife. Although it's fashionable to disparage Kuta for its rampant development, low-brow nightlife and crass commercialism, the cosmopolitan mixture of beach-party hedonism and entrepreneurial energy can be exciting. It's a tourist gold-rush town with a get-rich-quick mentality and a planning horizon to match.  Kuta is not pretty but it's not dull either, and the amazing growth is evidence that a lot of people still find something to like in Kuta. It's still the best beach on Bali, with the only surf which breaks over sand instead of coral. Lots of cheap accommodation is available and there's a huge choice of places to eat. Shops and hawkers offer everything from fake flimflammery - laid out in boxes that open like jaws as you approach - to genuine antiques offered with a considerably softer sell. Even the tourists themselves have become a tourist attraction, with visitors coming from Java to ogle the topless bathers, and from other resorts to tut-tut at the tackiness of it all. And despite all the excesses, away from the traffic-clogged streets Kuta is still a village: a place of quiet compounds and narrow alleys, where devotional offerings are placed in front of houses and neighbours emerge in the coolness of the evening to gossip in the street.  Behind the beaches, labyrinthine roads and alleys lead back to the most amazing clutch of hotels, restaurants, bars, food stalls and shops. The renowned Poppies Gang, running directly back from Kuta Beach, is where most of the quieter, inexpensive hostels and restaurants are located. Cheap beachfront accommodation is available in Legian; the lanes running parallel to the beach are the best places to start trawling for a decent bed.  Kuta Bay is in the south of Bali, about 10km (6mi) southwest of Denpasar. Nearby, to the north is Sanur, an upmarket alternative to Kuta; Nusa Dua, to the south, is an upmarket alternative to Sanur. Ulu Watu, on the southern tip of Bali, is the island's most famous surfing spot.  
south_east_asia_bali_facts.html:  When to Go  Just considering the weather, the cooler dry season from April to October is the best time to visit Bali. The rest of the year is more humid, more cloudy and has more rainstorms, but you can still enjoy a holiday.  There are also distinct tourist seasons which affect the picture. The European summer holidays bring the biggest crowds - July, August and early September are busy. Accommodation can be tight in these months and prices are higher. From Christmas until the end of January, airfares to/from Australia are higher and flights can be booked solid. Many Indonesians also visit Bali around Christmas. Outside these times Bali has surprisingly few tourists and there are plenty of empty hotel rooms and free tables in restaurants.  Balinese festivals, holidays and special celebrations occur all the time, so don't worry about timing your visit to coincide with local events. Just make some inquiries when you arrive and be prepared to travel around the island.     Events  Apart from the usual western calendar, the Balinese also use two local calendars, the Hindu saka and the wuku. The wuku calendar, which is used to determine festival dates, uses 10 different types of weeks between one and 10 days long, all running simultaneously! The intersection of the various weeks determines auspicious days. It's impossible to work it out yourself: when you arrive in Bali, go to a tourist office and ask which festivals and celebrations are coming up. Try to get to at least one.  The Galungan Festival, Bali's major feast, is held throughout the island and is an annual event in the wuku year. During this 10-day period all the gods come down to earth for the festivities and barongs (mythical lion-dog creatures) prance from temple to temple and village to village. The last and most important day of the festival is Kuningan. Galungan takes place in June in 2003 and January in 2004.   Nyepi is the major festival of the saka year - it's the last day of the year, and usually falls towards the end of March or the beginning of April. The day before is set aside as a day of purification across the island. The night before, evil spirits are noisily chased away with cymbals, gongs, drums and flaming torches. On Nyepi itself, everyone stays quietly at home, making no noise, using no lights and doing no cooking. The idea is that when evil spirits descend, they are fooled into thinking that Bali is uninhabited and leave the island in peace for another year.    
south_east_asia_bali_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The Pejeng region around Ubud hides some of Bali's most ancient monuments and relics. Set in the bottom of a lush green valley surrounded by terraced rice paddies are the 10 impressive rock-cut shrines of Gunung Kawi. The shrines are carved out of the rock face in imitation of actual statues - in a similar fashion to the great rock-cut temples of Ajanta and Ellora in India. Less spectacular, but equally important, are the rock carvings at Yeh Pulu, the Pura Samuan Tiga temple and Goa Gajah (the elephant cave) - all just a couple of kilometres east of Ubud. The best way to access these sites is to catch a bemo from Ubud or rent a mountain bike.  
south_east_asia_bangkok_activities.html:  Activities  Bangkok has the usual array of sporting and fitness possibilities you'd expect in a city of this size, including golf, swimming, squash, bowling, gyms and even polo. For those looking for a more cultural experience, you can learn traditional Thai massage (or better yet, experience one first-hand) and even sign up for a course in Thai cooking. You can also learn one of several strains of Thai martial arts.  
south_east_asia_bangkok_attractions.html:  Attractions  Bangkok's National Museum, in old Bangkok on the banks of the river, is the largest of its kind in South-East Asia and holds a wonderful collection of Thai art. All styles and periods are represented, from Dvaravati to Ratanakosin, and good English-language descriptions are available. Permanent collections focus on traditional musical instruments from Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and Indonesia, Chinese weaponry, ceramics, clothing, woodcarving and textiles - highly recommended free English-language tours that take in all of these exhibits are available. In the grounds of the facility you will also find the restored Buddhaisawan Chapel, which was built in 1795 and contains some well-preserved murals.  
south_east_asia_bangkok_facts.html:  When to Go  While there's really no bad time to visit Thailand's capital, rain and extreme heat are less frequent between November and February. In Bangkok, April is only recommended to those with portable air conditioners, while October brings the heaviest rains - these are probably the best times to be out of Thailand. The tourists flock to Bangkok in December and August, while the least crowded months tend to be May, June and September.     Events  With so many cultures and beliefs colliding in Bangkok, it's rare to be in town and not run into a festival of some description. This is especially true in the cooler months from November to February, but religious and cultural events occur year-round. Coronation Day is on 5 May and those in Bangkok at the time can get a glimpse of the royals at Wat Phra Kaew. Also celebrated with some fervour in Bangkok is the King's Birthday on 5 December - some residents erect temporary shrines outside their houses or businesses.  On the cultural side of things, May sees the Royal Ploughing Ceremony halt traffic around Sanam Luang - this ancient Brahman ritual marks the official opening of the rice-planting season. The Thailand International Swan-Boat Races take place in Bangkok in September, and see colour and crowds flocking to the Rama IX Bridge over the Chao Phraya River.    
south_east_asia_bangkok_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  About 86km (53mi) north of Bangkok is the former Thai capital of Ayuthaya. By the end of the 17th century it had a population of over a million people and many foreigners claimed it was the most illustrious city they had ever seen. These days, the city is really only of interest for its many ruins and museums, but it''s definitely worth a visit if history is your bag. Along with its two impressive museums - Chao Sam Phraya National Museum and Chan Kasem Palace) - the city''s large collection of temples and ruins have been declared World Heritage sites by UNESCO.  
south_east_asia_brunei_activities.html:  Activities  Most activities in Brunei are of the organised, lycra-sports-gear, pay-to-play variety. The Hassanal Bolkiah National Stadium is of Olympic proportions and includes a track and field complex for keen runners, a tennis centre, squash courts and a swimming pool. Golfers can enjoy an international standard course at Mentiri Golf Club, and there's also a driving range near the airport. Hear the pins rattle at the bowling alley on Jalan Tutong.  
south_east_asia_brunei_attractions.html:  Attractions  Bandar, the only town of any size, seems too big for its 60,000 inhabitants. It's a neat, clean, modern city with wide roads and overstated public buildings. Omar Ali Saifuddin Mosque is one of the most impressive modern mosques in the East. Originally built in 1958, the giant golden-domed mosque stands close to the Brunei River in its own artificial lagoon. The interior is just as luxurious, with Italian marble walls, luxurious carpeting and an elevator.   Kampung Ayer is a centuries-old collection of 28 water villages built on stilts in the Brunei River. Around 30,000 people live in this area, which is a strange mix of modern and ancient, and a visit here will be a real highlight of your trip to Brunei.  Bandar Seri Begawan has a couple of excellent museums: the traditionally-oriented Brunei Museum and the lavish Malay Technology Museum, which includes exhibits on water village architecture and technologies used by the people who live in them. Istana Nurul Iman, the Sultan's magnificent palace, is open to the public only at the end of the fasting month of Ramadan. Despite the friendliness of the populace, Bandar's nightlife is non-existent and the streets are deserted at 9pm.  
south_east_asia_brunei_environment.html:  Environment  Brunei consists of two separate areas, approximately 30km (19mi) apart. Both areas are bordered by the South China Sea to the north, and by the Malaysian province of Sarawak on all other sides. Western Brunei is composed of hilly lowlands; the eastern part consists of a coastal plain rising to a height of 1841m (6038ft) at Bukit Pagon. Most of Brunei is jungle. Only 15 per cent of the country is cultivated, resulting in Brunei having to import 80 per cent of its food requirements.  Brunei doesn't have marked wet and dry seasons. Rainfall occurs throughout the year, but is heaviest between September and January. Temperatures are consistently between 24 C (75 F) and 31 C (88 F). Average humidity is 79%, making it a pretty warm and sticky place.  
south_east_asia_brunei_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of 14 countries (including Belgium, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden) can stay 14 days without a visa; British, Malaysian and Singaporean citizens can stay 30 days without a visa. US citizens can stay up to 90 days without a visaHealth risks: NoneTime: UTC plus eight hoursElectricity: 220-240V, 50 HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: Estimated 12,000 visitors per year When to Go  Weather's not much of a consideration when heading for Brunei - whenever you go it's bound to be warm and wet. September to January is the official wet season, when things are even warmer and wetter. Things tend to close down during Ramadan, when all Muslims must fast between dawn and dusk for a month, so it's worth checking if your visit will fall in this period.     Events  Most festivals are religious celebrations or mark the anniversaries of important events in the sultanate's history. The dates of religious festivals are based on the Islamic calendar, so the dates are not fixed. Ramadan, the Islamic month of fasting, is one of the most important events on Brunei's calendar. Chinese New Year takes place in January/February, and Brunei's National Day is 23 February.    
south_east_asia_brunei_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Wasai Kandal, about 12km (7mi) south-west of BSB, is a forest area with waterfalls and pools. A wide, easy-to-follow path leads past picnic ponds and pools to Air Terjun Tinggi, the most impressive falls. A rough track takes you to Air Terjun Rendah, another waterfall with its own picnic area. You'll need a car to get here.  
south_east_asia_cambodia_activities.html:  Activities  With tourism in Cambodia still in its infancy, activities as such are generally limited to sightseeing. Phnom Penh's population of foreigners are kept entertained by a swag of leisure activities like go-carting, jet-skiing, mini golf and tenpin bowling. A network of national parks is slowly being established nationwide, complete with visitor facilities; Ream and Bokor on the south coast are the most accessible and interesting. There's limited trekking and elephant rides in Ratanakiri and Mondulkiri, but you need a guide. If you fancy a spot of snorkelling you could try Sihanoukville (also known as Kompong Som), home to Cambodia's finest beaches.  
south_east_asia_cambodia_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital still retains an undeniable charm despite its tumultuous and often violent past. The crumbling colonial architecture makes an attractive backdrop to bustling streetside cafes and the redeveloped riverfront precinct - a particularly lively part of town on Friday and Saturday nights. The city has several impressive wats (temple-monasteries), including Wat Ounalom (headquarters of the Cambodian Buddhist patriarchate), Wat Phnom (the hilltop pagoda which gave the city its name) and the newly painted Wat Lang Ka. Pride of place goes to the spectacular Silver Pagoda, one of the few places in Cambodia where artefacts embodying the brilliance and richness of Khmer culture were preserved by the Khmer Rouge (although only 40% of its former glories were 'preserved'). The National Museum is another highlight, with outstanding displays of Khmer crafts.  The Killing Fields of Choeung Ek are a grisly reminder of the atrocities committed by the Khmer Rouge. Some 17,000 people were killed here, just 15km south-west of the city centre, and more than 8000 skulls, arranged by sex and age, are visible behind the glass panel of the Memorial Stupa, which was erected in 1988. Prior to their murder, the victims had been detained at the prison known as S-21, housed in the Tuol Svay Prey High School. Today, the Tuol Sleng Museum serves as testament to the crimes of the Khmer Rouge, and few details of each victim's torture and death are left to the imagination.  The Central Market area, which includes Monirong Blvd, is the main centre for budget travellers, with cheap accommodation and plenty of food stalls. Head to the city's half-dozen or so street markets to browse and bargain for jewellery, antiques or the ubiquitous kramas (checked cotton scarves). The riverfront is the place to go for cheap beer and good food.  
south_east_asia_cambodia_environment.html:  Environment  Cambodia is bounded on the west by Thailand, on the north by Laos, on the east by Vietnam and to the south by the Gulf of Thailand. It's about half the size of Vietnam or Italy. Topographically, the country is dominated by the mighty Mekong River, which cuts a swathe through the country from north to south; the fish-filled Tonle Sap (Great Lake); the Elephant and Cardamom mountains in the southwest; the Dangkrek Mountains along the Thai border; and the Eastern Highlands in the northeast. Most Cambodians live on the fertile central plains of the Mekong-Tonle basin.  The biggest threat to Cambodia's natural environment is the logging frenzy which reduced the country's forest coverage from 75% in the mid-1960s to just 49% in mid-1993 - and with the government constantly strapped-for-cash, there's little reason to believe that the stripping of such assets will come to a halt soon. The number of national parks is slowly growing, but with illegal logging as rife as legal concessions, no tree in Cambodia is safe. The parks include Bokor, on the south coast; Ream, near Sihanoukville; Kirirom, outside Phnom Penh; and Virachay, bordering Laos and Vietnam. A number of endangered species which are elsewhere extinct are thought to be hidden in the more remote habitats, including elephants, tigers, lepoards, rhinos, gibbons, bats and crocodiles. The most commonly found fauna are varieties of butterflies, snakes and birds such as cormorants, cranes and ducks.  Cambodia's climate is governed by two monsoons: the cool, dry northeastern monsoon from November to February, and the humid southwestern monsoon from May to October. Monsoon rains fall mostly in the afternoon, and account for 70 to 80% of annual rainfall. Average annual temperatures vary from 21 to 35 C (70 to 95 F), often reaching 40 C (105 F) in April, the hottest month.  
south_east_asia_cambodia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: A one-month visa, on arrival at Pochentong and Siem Reap airports, costs US$20 for a tourist visa and US$25 for a business visa.Health risks: Cholera, hepatitis, malaria, typhoid, rabies, Japanese B encephalitis, landminesTime: GMT/UTC plus seven hoursElectricity: 220V, 50Hz (unstable supply)Weights & measures: metric When to Go  The ideal months to be in Cambodia are December and January, when humidity is bearable, temperatures are cooler and it's unlikely to rain. From February onwards it starts getting pretty hot, and April is unbearably so. The wet season (from May to October), though very soggy, can be a good time to visit Angkor, as the moats will be full and the foliage lush - but steer clear of the northeast regions during those months, as the going gets pretty tough when the tracks are waterlogged. The country's biggest festival, Bon Om Tuk, is held in early November, and is well worth catching.     Events   Lunar New Year is celebrated by ethnic Chinese and Vietnamese in late January or early February. The Khmer New Year celebrations bring the country to a standstill for three days in mid-April - a fair amount of water and talcum powder gets thrown around at this time, so it's a lively but noncontemplative time to visit. Chat Preah Nengkal, the Royal Ploughing Festival, takes place near the Royal Palace in Phnom Penh in early May. The Khmer calendar's most important festival is Bom Om Tuk, celebrating the end of the wet season in early November - it's the best time to visit Phnom Penh or Siem Reap. Banks, ministries and embassies are closed during all public holidays and festivals.   Public Holidays: January 1 - New Year's Day March 8 - Women's Day April 13 - Khmer New Year May 1 - Labour Day June 1 - International Children's Day September 24 - Constitution Day October 23 - Paris Peace Agreement October 30 - King's Birthda November 9 - Independence Day December 10 - UN Human Rights Dayback to toppreviousnextDisclaimer: We've tried to make the information on this web site as accurate as possible, but it is provided 'as is' and we accept no responsibility for any loss, injury or inconvenience sustained by anyone resulting from this information. You should verify critical information like visas, health and safety, customs, and transportation) with the relevant authorities before you travel.view enlargementview slideshowGuides to CambodiaTheme Packs Save!Browse the LP ShopFREE BOOK!Sacred India with minimum purchaseMulti-Stop AirfaresEuropean Rail TravelTravel InsuranceHostel BookingGlobal Phonecardlearn morehome |search |help |upgrades |newsletters |travel services
south_east_asia_cambodia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Udong, 40km (25mi) north of Phnom Penh, was the capital of Cambodia between 1618 and 1866. It's generally very quiet here, and you'll often have the town's stupas to yourself (along with picnickers at weekends). The ruins are sprinkled across two ridges. The smaller has two ruined buildings, several stupas and the Ta San Mosque (or at least its remains; all that's left is the building's bullet-pocked walls). A 16th-century treasure is supposed to be hidden below the larger ridge, which is topped by the scattered ruins of a large vihara (sanctuary) and Buddha statue, blown up by the Khmer Rouge in 1977. Surrounding the ruins are some still-intact smaller viharas, stupas and Buddhas. At the base of the ridge is a memorial to victims of Pol Pot, containing the bones of people buried in the 100 or so mass graves found in the area.  
south_east_asia_chiang_mai_activities.html:  Activities  Most people - Thais and foreigners alike - come to Chiang Mai for shopping bargains, and for a taste of traditional northern culture. Chiang Mai is also a great place to cycle around, and - especially pleasant on hot days - there are plenty of swimming facilities. For those wanting to relax Thai massage, yoga and Hindu meditation are popular pursuits.  
south_east_asia_chiang_mai_attractions.html:  Attractions  The oldest w t (temple or monastery) in the city, Wat Chiang Man was founded by King Mengrai in 1296 and features typical Northern Thai temple architecture with massive teak columns inside the b t (central sanctuary).  There are two important Buddha images in a cabinet to the right of this area. The first, Phra Sila, stands about 25cm (10in) tall, and reputedly came from Sri Lanka or India 2500 years ago. Chances are it isn't quite that old (Buddha images weren't created for about another 500 years), but it's still an extremely impressive and revered artefact. The other, a crystal seated Buddha only 10cm (4in) in height is about 1800 years old. Known as the Phra Satang Man, it was shunted back and forth between Thailand and Laos for centuries before finding a permanent home here at Chiang Man. The w t is in the north east corner of the old city.  
south_east_asia_chiang_mai_facts.html:  When to Go  Unless you don't mind almost daily torrential rain, the best time to visit Chiang Mai is between October and April, with the other months a virtual monsoonal washout. It can be quite hot, with the April average temperature 36 C (95 F). The mildest temperatures are in December and January. Nights in Chiang Mai are regularly cooler than in southern Thailand. Festivals occur throughout the year, with the bulk of them between late December and April. These provide a great opportunity to immerse yourself in the colour and spectacle of traditional Thai culture.     Events  The week-long Winter Fair at the end of December is a great festival, as is the April Songkran Water Festival. The highlight of Chiang Mai's festivals, however, is the Flower Carnival in February, which features parades, floats, music and traditional cultural events.   Chinese New Year falls in late January or early February, and is celebrated throughout Thailand. Some other of Thailand's seemingly endless list of public holidays include Chakri Day (6 April), Coronation Day (5 May), Constitution Day (10 December) and several holidays celebrating the birthdays of current and former kings and queens.    
south_east_asia_chiang_mai_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The 1676m (5500ft) mountain 16km (10mi) north west of Chiang Mai is named after a hermit who lived on the mountain's slops for many years. Near the summit is perhaps the north's most sacred temples, the 600 year old Wat Phra Doi Suthep. After climbing a winding path, then tackling 300 steps, visitors are greeted with a great aerial view of Chiang Mai (weather permitting), and - inside the temple - an exquisite, copper-plated chedi topped by a five-tiered gold umbrella.  The area around the w t features several other attractions of interest to visitors. Phra Tamnak Phu Phing is a winter palace for the royal family and has beautiful gardens open to the public. A fairly touristy Hmong hill-tribe village is worth visiting - especially if you won't have the chance to make it out to a more remote village - and the locals sell Hmong handicrafts. There is also the popular Monthathon Falls, which is a well-frequented swimming spot for Chiang Mai residents on weekends.  
south_east_asia_east_timor_activities.html:  Activities  East Timor has some great beaches, particularly between Dili and the country's second-largest town of Baucau. The snorkelling is spectacular off Pantemakassar, in the coastal enclave of Oecussi. For a spot of mountain climbing, head to Gunung Tatamailau (2963m), Timor's highest peak.  
south_east_asia_east_timor_attractions.html:  Attractions  East Timor's capital is a pleasant, lazy city with Portuguese touches such as villa-lined beach roads and the massive old garrison, built in 1627. Most of Dili was destroyed in 1999 and just about every remaining building bears some sort of scar from the violence. The long stretch of waterfront remains a place of commerce and leisure, and a focal point for evening walks and weekend outings.  This strongly Catholic city has plenty of churches, and a massive statue of Christ gives the hilltop headland at Cape Fatucama a touch of Rio de Janeiro. There are magnificent views from the hilltop, but as muggers have been active in the area it's best to check the current security situation before setting off.  The Dili region has several good beaches, with decent snorkelling below the headland. The most popular area is the sheltered cove of Areia Branca, also known as Pasir Putih (or 'White Sands' in English), about 3km east of Dili town. Atauro Island - visible from the waterfront - is easily accessible by boat, including a ferry service once a week which gives you several hours on the island - time for a look around a swim.  Heading west from Dili, along the beautiful coast road, there are some good beaches, and fruit and fish stalls at intervals along the road. Liquica, an hour away from Dili, was the site of a massacre in the church in 1999 and is gradually recovering. There's a black-sand beach with some welcome shady trees.  
south_east_asia_east_timor_environment.html:  Environment  East Timor is made up of the eastern half of the island of Timor, which lies at the eastern end of the Indonesian archipelago, to the north of Australia. It also includes the enclave of Oecussi (also known as Ambeno) on the north coast, 70km (42mi) to the west and surrounded by Indonesian West Timor.  Once part of the Australian continental shelf, Timor only fully emerged from the ocean some four million years ago, and is therefore comprised mainly of marine sediment, principally limestone. Rugged mountains run the length of the island, the highest being Gunung Tatamailau (2963m/9700ft) in East Timor. Coastal plains are narrow, and there are no major highland valleys or significant rivers. The mix of rocky soil and low rainfall makes agriculture difficult, resulting in food and water shortages in the dry season.  East Timor has extreme wet and dry seasons. From May to November, the north coast receives virtually no rain, causing agricultural activity to all but cease. The cooler central mountains and south coast get an occasional shower during this time, and are greener as a result. Everything turns green when the wet comes, but the rains often turn to floods and the dry-season rivers of dust become torrents.  Dili is dry, with an average rainfall of around 1000mm (39in), most of it falling from December to March. Temperatures on the north coast reach 35 C (95 F) or more around October/November. In the lowland areas they're a slightly more comfortable 30 C (85 F), dropping to the low 20s (low 70s) overnight. In the mountains, day temperatures are still warm to hot but night temperatures are appreciably cooler, and downright chilly at high altitudes.  
south_east_asia_east_timor_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: 90-day visa on entryHealth risks: Malaria, dengue fever, tuberculosis, rabies, Japanese EncephalitisTime: UTC plus 8 hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  When should you go? The current answer is when East Timor is back on its feet. When that is the case, the best time to visit is just after the wet season, around late April to June/July, when the countryside is green. The hottest months are October and November. Travel is certainly possible but difficult during the December-April wet season, when many roads are washed away.     Events  Like everything in East Timor, public holidays are under revision. Christian dates and Catholic festivals form the basis of the calendar, with new public holidays commemorating such landmark dates as the referendum of 30 August 1999 and the UN liberation. Holidays include New Year's Day (1 January), Good Friday (late March/early April), Assumption Day (15 August), Consultation Day (30 August), Liberation Day (20 September), Santa Cruz Day (12 November, commemorating the cemetery massacre at the Santa Cruz church) and Christmas Day (25 December). It's a good bet that 20 May - the date of independence in 2002 - will be a national holiday too.    
south_east_asia_east_timor_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The old hill towns of Maubisse and Ermera make a good break as a day trip from Dili and the heat of the coast. Ermera is renowned for its coffee plantations, many of which have survived, and Maubisse's impressive former government rest-house has reopened as a hotel, completely restored to its Portuguese-era condition. The mountain scenery here is spectacular but, as with most of the country, the towns were badly damaged in the events of 1999.  
south_east_asia_hanoi_activities.html:  Activities  Hanoi is a city that loves its out-of-doors, and there are plenty of ways to burn off that com tay cam. Several tennis courts, including those in the Van Phuc Diplomatic Quarter, are ready for your love. Hanoi also boasts a few public pools for swimming, and larger hotels will often let you take a dip for a fee.  Though Ho Chi Minh's advisers declared golf a 'bourgeois practice' back in 1975, turning courses into farming cooperatives, times are changing. Since 1992, even Communist Party members have been spoiling their walks at private greens, some of which are open to visitors.  The city also boasts a chapter of the Hash House Harriers, a loosely organized international club that was founded in Malasia during the 1930s. Activities can include a morning jog or and evening beer bash. Look for announcements in The Guide, Time Out or in expat bars.  If you'd rather get your exercise indoors, there are fitness centers throughout Hanoi where you can work out for a fee. Venues offering table tennis, billiards and martial arts are also well represented.  
south_east_asia_hanoi_attractions.html:  Attractions  Vietnam's first university, founded in 1070 by Emperor Ly Thanh Tong, is a pleasant retreat from the streets of Hanoi. It's a rare example of traditional Vietnamese architecture and is an interesting introduction to Confucianism.  Five courtyards represent the essential elements of nature. A central path sybolizes the Confucian Middle Path, dividing the complex. Entry into each courtyard, according to the old signs, requires the completion of a task; you need only dismount your horse to enter the first courtyard, known as the Entrance to the Way, but to get to the second courtyard, the Great Middle Gate, you must accomplish virtue and attain talent. (Or pay a US$1 entrance fee.)  After you've achieved excellence in literary expression, head to the Constellation of Literature Pavillion, an architectural marvel considered a symbol of the city. This is the entrance to the third courtyard, the Garden of the Stelae where the names of all graduates since the 1400s are inscribed on the backs of stone turtles.  After synthesising the teachings of Confucious, head to the fourth Courtyard of the Sages, where you can make an offering to the great teacher. The fifth courtyard, the School for the Sons of the Nation, housed dormitories and classrooms for the university. It was all but destroyed by French shelling in 1947, and little remains of the original structure.  
south_east_asia_hanoi_environment.html:  Environment  A century ago Hanoi was surrounded by dense woodland; though economic and population growth have taken their toll, it's still home to more than 200,000 trees. This is an urban area, complete with legions of smoke-spewing motorbikes, factories introducing all manner of toxins into the environment and plenty of denuded hillsides shedding precious topsoil into choked streams. In short, it echoes the environment of most major cities on Earth.  If you're looking for mother nature's Vietnam (or simply a breather from all the hustle and bustle), you are within a half day's drive of several national parks. Cat Ba National Park is an island boasting unparalleled ecological diversity, a few quaint fishing villages and lots of waterfalls. Cuc Phuong is less popular among the backpacking set, but it's an easy drive from town and offers plenty of great hiking opportunities. The park is also home to the Endangered Primate Rescue Center, dedicated to saving the country's fast declining monkey and ape populations from extinction.  
south_east_asia_hanoi_facts.html:  When to Go  There is really no bad season to visit Hanoi. The city offers countless attractions that can be seen year-round, and the climate is generally agreeable. Winter (November-February) is generally cool and dry, with temperatures between 10-15 C (59-68 F). Spring (February-April) is a bit warmer, though the constant drizzle can wear a bit. Summer (May-September) is hot (30-36 C; 86-97 F) and humid, with the occasional devastating typhoon. Fall (September-November) sees sunny, often perfect, weather.  Tourist season runs from late June through August and October through Tet, the New Year's celebration that takes place in late January or early February. Though accommodations and transportation are bound to be booked around Tet, it's worth making the effort to see Hanoi dressed up for the festivities.  Vietnamese tend to travel in the summer and around Tet, making public transportation that much more difficult to book.     Events  Vietnam operates on two calendars: the solar (Western) calendar and the lunar calendar. Official public holidays are usually scheduled according to the former, while the most festive celebrations are the moon's domain.  Many businesses are closed January 1 for Western New Year's Day, February 3 for the anniversary of the Vietnamese Communist Party, April 30 to commemorate Saigon's surrender in 1975, May 1 so workers of the world can unite, May 19 for Ho Chi Minh's birthday, September 2 to celebrate the country's 1945 Declaration of Independence and December 25 for Christmas. Buddha's birthday, which usually falls in June, and Tet, which takes place in late January or early February, are both lunar-calendar holidays when the bankers get a day off.  If you're looking for a party, then just eat the extra airfare or hitchhike to Hanoi for Tet, a New Year's celebration involving fragrant flower blossoms, delicate kumquat trees, delectable cakes of pork, bean curd and sticky rice called banh chung and fireworks that put automatic weapons to shame. The days following the week-long celebration are family time, and the streets are generally quiet with most businesses closed.  Other events worth planning your visit around include Summer Solstice, when human effigies are burned to stock the God of the Dead's armies, and the Mid-Autumn Festival, which utilizes the natural hyperactivity of children - who are drafted to carry colorful lanterns and bang cymbals while fortified with sweet moon cakes - for maximum effect. Wandering Souls Day, which takes place in late summer or early autmun, is second only to Tet in importance. Offerings of food and gifts are made in homes and pogodas for the wandering sould of the forgotten dead.    
south_east_asia_hanoi_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This complex of pagodas and Buddhist shrines built into the limestone cliffs of the Huong Tich Mountains (Mountains of Fragrant Traces) is accessible only by water. Among the better known sites here are the Thien Chu (Pagoda Leading to Heaven), Huong Tich Chu (Pagoda of the Perfume Vestige) and Giai Oan (Purgatorial Pagoda), where the faithful believe dieties purify souls, cure illnesses and grant offspring to childless couples.  Vast numbers of Buddhist pilgrims make their way here during the early spring, where they spend their time praying, boating, hiking and exploring the caves. Despite the sometimes numerous visitors, the Perfume Pagoda is a peaceful, perhaps holy, place.  
south_east_asia_ho_chi_minh_activities.html:  Activities  If you're well-heeled, plush hotels have swimming pools, or you might like a spot of golf at one of several resorts. For everyone else, walking tours are a popular way to see the city, while many operators offer war-focussed day trips. If you're looking for something a little more authentic, you could try your slow hand at thai cuc quyen, a form of meditative slow-motion boxing.  
south_east_asia_ho_chi_minh_attractions.html:  Attractions  On the morning of 30 April 1975 the 43-hour old government of South Vietnam sat quietly on the second floor of this grand building - then called the Independence Palace - waiting to transfer power to the Northern forces who were crashing through the wrought iron gates below. 'There is no question of you transferring power', they were told by a Viet Cong officer. 'You cannot give up what you do not have.'  It is partly because of the rich history of this building - and partly because of the striking modern architecture - that this building is one of the most fascinating sights in the city. Preserved almost exactly as it was on the day Vietnam was reunified, the building took its current form in 1966 after it had been partially destroyed in an attack by South Vietnam leader Diem's own air force (they really hated him, it seems). Now, the building is a magnificent example of 60s architecture - airy and open with spacious chambers and tasteful modern decorations. The building is still used for official functions.  The most interesting section of the Reunification Palace is the basement - a network of tunnels and rooms, including a war room and a telecommunications room. One of the tunnels stretches all the way to Gia Long Palace, now known as the Revolutionary Museum. Reunification is in District 3, in the heart of downtown Ho Chi Minh.  
south_east_asia_ho_chi_minh_facts.html:  When to Go  Being only 10.5 above the equator and between 5 and 10m (16-35ft) above sea level, Ho Chi Minh City is almost a template for tropical weather. Temperatures rarely vary from about 30 C (86 F), however the seven or eight month wet season can certainly make things wet, sweaty and generally uncomfortable. Heavy downpours can last for days on end, although the city is largely spared the devastation of typhoons that hit the northern areas on the country. The driest time is between December and April, when the humidity is mercifully down below 60%.     Events  The major event in Vietnam - celebrated with extra vigour in Ho Chi Minh City - is the Tet, or Lunar New Year, Festival. It's a time when the Vietnamese gather together and hope for the future. It's also everyone's birthday. Tet falls between 19 January and 20 Feburary and lasts a whole week in the south. Public transport often shuts down for several days at this time.    
south_east_asia_ho_chi_minh_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Now a district of the greater city, Cu Chi was the site of intense action during the American war. To see signs of this destruction, you have to dig deep - underground. Not even 40km (25mi) from the city, the area around Cu Chi was nonetheless controlled by the VC through its now-legendary system of tunnels. At the height of the war, the tunnels stretched from Saigon through to the Cambodian border; in Cu Chi district alone there were over 250km (155mi) of tunnels, some several storeys deep. These days, some of the tunnels - enlarged and upgraded - are open to the public, and give a fair idea of the conditions within the system. At their peak, the system of tunnels included kitchens, living areas, hospitals and a network of trap doors to guard against gas and water attacks. Cu Chi town is north-west of Ho Chi Minh City, and is best visited in a hire car or an organised tour. It is not well served by public transport.  
south_east_asia_indonesia_activities.html:  Activities  There is good diving and snorkelling off Bali (Nusa Dua, Sanur, Padangbai), between Komodo and Labuhanbajo in Flores, around the Banda Islands and off Pulau Biak off the north coast of Irian Jaya. The sea gardens of Sulawesi, particularly around Manado, are legendary. Renowned surf spots include Ulu Watu in Bali, Grajagan in Java and Nias off Sumatra, but there is surf along the southern coast of virtually all the islands in Nusa Tenggara. Windsurfing enthusiasts are well catered for in the southern resorts of Bali. Rafting is a new activity now offered on Bali's Ayung River.  Sumatra has good jungle treks, particularly in Gunung Leuser National Park. Berastagi and Bukit Lawang are also popular trekking centres in Sumatra. More adventurous jungle trekking opportunities are available in Kalimantan and Irian Jaya. For those who want to reach for the skies, Mt Bromo in Java and Agung in Bali are day climbs; Gunung Rinjani, the volcano that dominates Lombok, is a strenuous but worthwhile three-day jaunt.  
south_east_asia_indonesia_attractions.html:  Attractions  Bali is so picturesque that you could be fooled into thinking it was a painted backdrop: rice paddies trip down hillsides like giant steps, volcanoes soar through the clouds, the forests are lush and tropical, and the beaches are lapped by the warm waters of the Indian Ocean.  But the paradise gloss has been manufactured and polished by the international tourist industry rather than by the Balinese themselves - who don't even have a word for paradise in their language - and it pays scant regard to the political and economic reality of life on Bali. A popular destination for pleasure-seeking Western tourists, Bali is also part of Muslim Indonesia, making it a flashpoint for extremism on both sides. Internal strife and international affairs have imposed themselves on this postcard island - with tragic results.  
south_east_asia_indonesia_environment.html:  Environment  The Indonesian archipelago comprises more than 13,000 islands and shares borders with Malaysia and Papua New Guinea. Stretching like a backbone down the western coast of Sumatra is a line of active and extinct volcanoes. These continue through Java, Bali, Nusa Tenggara and then loop through the Banda Islands of Maluku to north-eastern Sulawesi. Under 10 per cent of the total land area is suitable for farming, while two-thirds consists of woodland, forests and mangrove swamp (mostly found in Sumatra, Kalimantan, Sulawesi and Irian Jaya).  Indonesia's rich natural environment encourages a diversity of flora and fauna. The archipelago is home to elephants, tigers, leopards and orang-utans. Sea turtles are found in the waters around Bali and the world's largest flowers - Rafflesia arnoldii - grow in Sumatra. The islands of Irian Jaya, Java, Kalimantan, Sulawesi and Sumatra have national parks, while other parks protect special areas such as Komodo, home to the Komodo dragon. Rainforests are disappearing at an alarming rate, especially in Kalimantan where the mighty dipterocarp forests are being logged ferociously for their durable tropical hardwoods.  Draped over the equator, Indonesia tends to have a fairly uniform climate - hot. It's hot and wet during the wet season (October to April) and hot and dry during the dry season (May to September). Temperatures climb to about 31 C(88 F) in coastal regions, dropping further inland. The best time to visit Indonesia is from April to October.  
south_east_asia_indonesia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Citizens of most countries can stay 60 days without a visa.Health risks: Dengue fever, giardiasis, hepatitis, Japanese encephalitis, malaria, paratyphoid, rabies, typhoidTime: There are three time zones: Sumatra, Java and West & Central Kalimantan are seven hours ahead of UTC; Bali, Nusa Tenggara, South & East Kalimantan and Sulawesi are eight hours ahead of UTC; and Irian Jaya and Maluku are nine hours ahead of UTCElectricity: 220V, 50 HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 4 million visitors per year When to Go  Though travel in the wet season is possible in most parts of Indonesia, it can be a deterrent to some activities and travel on mud-clogged roads in less developed areas is difficult. In general, the best time to visit is in the dry season between May and October.  The Christmas holiday period beings a wave of migratory Australians and there's an even bigger tourist wave during the European summer holidays. The main Indonesian holiday period is the end of Ramadan, when some resorts are packed to overflowing and prices skyrocket.     Events  With such a multiplicity of ethnic groups, Indonesia has, unsurprisingly, a surfeit of cultural events throughout the year. On Sumba, mock battles that hark back to the era of internecine warfare are held in February and March. The day before Balinese Caka New Year (March-April) temple icons are taken to the sea to be bathed and drummers drive evil spirits back to the spirit world. During the Balinese festival of Galungan (moving dates) even the gods descend to earth and join in the revelry. There's a dramatic Easter Parade on the island of Larantuka, whip duels in Ruteng, Flores in August and Torajan funereal feasts are held in central Sulawesi, mainly between August and October. As most Indonesians are Muslim, many festivals are affected by the lunar calendar; dates are subsequently pushed back 10 or 11 days each year.    
south_east_asia_indonesia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  These two small islands sandwiched between Flores and Sumbawa in eastern Nusa Tenggara are famous for their four-legged inhabitants - the ponderous Komodo dragons. The lizards can be quite fierce, and range from 20g (0.7oz) pipsqueaks to 130kg (287lb) monsters. Non-squeamish visitors can watch organised feeding frenzies and join dragon-spotting treks on Komodo, but these can feel a bit stage-managed and gory. For a more do-it-yourself alternative, head for Rinca where there are no established feeding places so spotting monitor lizards is more a matter of luck. Komodo is a hilly desolate island, but Rinca's wildlife is fairly abundant - there are several monkey colonies, wild water buffalo, deer, bush turkeys and eagles. Ferries run to Komodo from Sape in Sumbawa and Labhuanbajo in Flores. To reach Rinca, you'll need to charter a boat.  
south_east_asia_jakarta_activities.html:  Activities  Crowded, hot, polluted and sprawling, Jakarta is not well set up for pursuits such as cycling or rollerblading. Even the coast isn't particularly user-friendly in Jakarta. Your best bet is to head away from the city to the beaches of West Java or the inland mountains.  
south_east_asia_jakarta_attractions.html:  Attractions  The old town of Batavia is the oldest and finest reminder of the Dutch presence in Jakarta. At one time, it contained a massive shoreline fortress and was surrounded by a sturdy wall and a moat. In the early 19th century much of the unhealthy city was destroyed by the government in a bid to freshen things up a bit, but there are still plenty of Dutch influences in this part of town.  A few of Batavia's old buildings are still in use - many were restored in the 1970s and are now museums. The centre of the area is a cobblestone square known as Taman Fatahillah, while to the west is the Kali Besar, the great canal that once marked out the high-class residential area of Batavia. On the west bank of the canal are the last of the big private homes dating from the early 18th century. Follow the canal north and you'll see a small 17th century Dutch drawbridge, the last in the city, called the Chicken Market Bridge. Old Batavia is directly north of the city centre at Kota train station.  
south_east_asia_jakarta_facts.html:  When to Go  With maximum temperatures hovering above 30 C (86 F) all year round, Jakarta is warm and often wet city. The dry season is from May to September, and while buckets of torrential rain are still possible, it's more likely that you'll stay pretty dry. Independence Day is on 17 August, and the parades and celebrations are at their grandest in Jakarta.     Events  Independence Day on 17 August is celebrated with great gusto in Jakarta. A flag-raising ceremony is held in Merdeka Place, and carnivals and cultural shows pop up across the city. The Jakarta Fair occurs around 22 June and lasts about three weeks. The Jakarta Fairgrounds come alive to the sounds of industrial exhibits, cultural events and rides. Other celebrations, such as the Jalan Jaksa Street Fair in August and the Jakarta International Cultural Performance in May are colourful, vibrant events that are well worth attending.    
south_east_asia_jakarta_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  In the south-east of the city is a huge park, conceived by Mme Tien Soeharto in 1971 and opened in 1975. The idea - to represent the traditional cultures of Indonesia''s 27 provinces - promised to be a landmark to tackiness on a monumental and expensive scale. As it turns out, however, the 100-hectare (250-acre) park is pretty impressive, and is Jakarta''s most visited attraction. The display of 27 full scale houses features regional handicrafts and clothing. The houses are dotted around a lagoon, and can be reached by small boat or viewed from a cable car. Taman Mini also houses museums, theatres, restaurants, an orchid garden and a bird park. It''s 18km (11mi) from the centre of Jakarta, and can be reached by bus and metro-mini.  
south_east_asia_java_attractions.html:  Attractions  Once saddled with a reputation as a poverty-ridden hell hole, Jakarta mutated into a metropolis with all the outward appearance of an Asian boom town in not much more than a decade. It took only a week of rioting in May 1998 to reduce some of this modern fa ade to a burnt out shell. Shopping malls, offices, banks and businesses owned by ethnic Chinese and the Suharto family took the brunt of the rioters' anger. Jakarta remains very much at the centre of political events re-shaping Indonesia, and how quickly the city recovers from the riots and the political and economic turmoil remains to be seen.  That said, Jakarta is the most expensive city in Indonesia, the most polluted and the most congested, but if you can withstand this onslaught and afford to indulge in its charms, then it is also one of the region's most exciting metropolises. Consider Jakarta the 'big durian' - the foul-smelling exotic fruit that some can't stomach and others can't resist.  Jakarta boasts one of the best sights in all of South-East Asia: Sunda Kelapa, the old Dutch port, is awash with magnificent Makassar schooners ( pinisi) and anyone who spends an early morning here will not forget the experience. Nearby Pasar Ikan, the early-morning fish market, is a colourful scene of busy, bartering crowds. Other sights include Old Batavia, an area of 18th-century houses and streets that are gradually being restored; the Gereja Sion church, which is the oldest in Jakarta; and the zoo with its Komodo dragons and orangutans.  There are a number of interesting museums including the Indonesian National Museum, which houses an enormous collection of cultural objects from the country's various ethnic groups; and the Jakarta History Museum, which contains memorabilia from the Dutch colonial era. The city's public monuments include the fanciful National Monument (Monas) in Merdeka Square and the Statue of Welcome (known locally as 'Hansel and Gretel').  Jakarta's cultural showcase, Taman Ismail Marzuki, hosts a variety of Western and Indonesian performances, ranging from poetry readings and jazz concerts to premier showings of international films and gamelan concerts. There are a number of upmarket bars, discos and restaurants on Jalan M H Thamrin that feature live acts; for somewhat sleazier entertainment, try the nightlife along Jalan Abang Timur 14. A cheaper alternative is to walk to Taman Ria at Merdeka Square and see the local talent perform amid the bright lights of the merry-go-rounds.  Jakarta's cheapest and most central accommodation area is along Jalan Jaksa, a small street south of the National Monument. Many of the mid-range hotels are also found in this vicinity. Jakarta has the widest range of street hawkers, markets and restaurants of any Indonesian city; most are found on and around Jalan Jaksa or in the markets around Jalan Surabaya in Menteng.  
south_east_asia_java_facts.html:  When to Go  Normally, weather is the main consideration in determining when to visit Java. The dry season, from May to September, is the best time to visit. During the wet season, from October to April, the mountains are shrouded in clouds and rainfall in the highlands can dampen travel plans. Elsewhere, travel in the wet season is not usually a problem since rain seems to fall in short torrential early morning or mid-afternoon bursts. The main foreign tourist season is during the European summer in July and August, when prices rise and accommodation and transport can be tight. The main Indonesian holiday periods are the end of Ramadan, when some resorts are packed to overflowing, prices skyrocket and getting anywhere is a far-off dream. Other peak times are Christmas and Java's end of school year holidays (from mid-June to mid-July) when high school students take off by the busload to visit tourist attractions.     Events  The Ramayana Ballet, Java's most spectacular dance drama, is performed at the outdoor theatre at the Prambanan temple complex near Yogya on four successive nights twice a month from May to September. The month long Jakarta Fair in June-July includes carnival attractions and cultural events in celebration of Jakarta's founding on 22 June. Parades are held in every town and village on 17 August to celebrate Independence Day. The island of Madura, just off Java's north-eastern coast stages its famous bull races in August and September. The races culminate in the final race at Pamekasan, usually in September.  One variable festival worth looking out for is the Buddhist Waicak at Borobudur, which celebrates the enlightenment of Buddha. Thousands of pilgrims gather to offer prayers and join the procession from the nearby Mendut temple to Borobudur. The 4 day Borobudur Festival is held at the same time and includes dance and music performances and arts and crafts exhibits.    
south_east_asia_java_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Scattered across the Java Sea to the north of Jakarta are the Thousand Islands - well, 112 of them anyway. Only a few of the islands have been developed, and the empty beaches and scuba sites on islands such as Pulau Damar, Pulau Tikus and Pulau Pari are good day-trip destinations from Jakarta. Further north still, tropical-paradise havens have been created for affluent travellers on the islands of Pulau Putri, Pulau Pelangi, Pulau Perak and Pulau Papa Theo (collectively known as Pulau Seribu Paradise).  
south_east_asia_kuala_lumpur_activities.html:  Activities  Many of Malaysia's most exciting activities take place outside of the capital, but there is still plenty to do in KL. The large parks and gardens make bird watching a rewarding experience. Malaysia boasts a tremendous number of species. The city and surrounds also have facilities for bushwalking and swimming. At night you can shake your bootie at a disco - until 1am, anyway.  
south_east_asia_kuala_lumpur_attractions.html:  Attractions  Site of the proclamation of independence in 1957, the square - formerly known as Padang - is the centre of National Day celebrations. Surrounding the square are many buildings of historical interest, including the Royal Selangor Club where KL's elite meet, the Sultan Abdul Samad building, which is a great example of the Victorian-Moorish architecture common to Malaysian cities, the National History Museum and library and the impressive, modern Dayabumi Complex. The square is in the heart of downtown KL, near the convergence of the Kelang and Gombak rivers.  
south_east_asia_kuala_lumpur_facts.html:  When to Go  It's hot and humid throughout Malaysia all year round, with overnight lows rarely sinking below 20 C (70 F) and maximums rising above 30 C (86 F) on most days, so whenever you go, take it easy. Rainfall is variable and falls all year round. It is rare for rain to fall all day: it usually confines itself to short-lived torrential downpours in the afternoons. The driest months tend to be June and July.     Events  With so many cultures and religions in Malaysia, there is almost always something going on. Visitors from Western countries will need to check the local lunar calendar for the exact dates of most events. New Year's Day, Chinese New Year, Worker's Day (May Day) and National Day (31 August) are just a few of Malaysia's mind-boggling 44 public holidays. The festival of Ramadan is the major Islamic event of the year.  The Hindu festival Thaipusam - now banned in India - is celebrated in the most dramatic way in Kuala Lumpur with devotees attaching heavy metal frames to their bodies using skewers and hooks. The celebrations centre on the Bata Caves.  KL is extremely well-serviced by air, bus and train routes. The main bus station - Puduraya - is just east of Chinatown, and services all of Peninsular Malaysia as well as Singapore and Thailand. Long-distance train journeys depart from the historic old train station, located 1km (0.6mi) from the new KL Sentral.    
south_east_asia_kuala_lumpur_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Just 13km (8mi) north of the city, the huge Batu Caves are among KL's best known tourist attractions. Now used for Hindu festivals and pilgrimages, the caves also form an intense backdrop to the spectacularly masochistic feats performed annually by Thaipusam devotees. The main cave, a vast open space known as the Temple Cave - is reached by a 272-step climb. Beyond the stairs is the main temple. There are several other smaller caves in the same formation, including one with elaborately painted Hindu figures. The caves can be reached by either the 11D bus (from the Central Market) or bus 69 from Jalan Pudu. The trip takes about half an hour.  
south_east_asia_laos_activities.html:  Activities  Due to the underdeveloped tourist infrastructure in Laos, there are virtually no organised activities. For the adventurous and resourceful, this can be a real boon. The hilly nature of the country makes it perfect trekking territory, though overnight camping is not allowed; ask around towns for a local guide. Mountain-biking is the next best way to take advantage of the terrain; there are bikes for hire in Vientiane and Luang Prabang. On Don Khon, an island in the Mekong River, there's an interesting walk across the southern tip of the island, which offers the chance to see Irrawaddy dolphins in the late afternoon between December and May.  
south_east_asia_laos_attractions.html:  Attractions  The capital city and seat of government sits on a bend in the Mekong River amidst fertile alluvial plains. Despite its chequered past, Vientiane (pronounced 'Wieng Chan' by the locals) is a laid-back city with a number of interesting wats and lively markets. The most important national monument in Laos is Pha That Luang (the Great Sacred Stupa), which is a symbol of both Buddhism and Lao sovereignty. Other sights of interest include Wat Pha Kaew, a former royal temple which is now a museum and Wat Si Saket, the oldest temple in Vientiane. Xieng Khuan is a collection of compelling Buddhist and Hindu sculptures located in a meadow, 24km (15mi) south of Vientiane.  Vientiane has around 10 top-end hotels and as many guesthouses, many of them moderately expensive, but plenty of lower-priced rooms have become available in the last few years. Most of the accommodation is in central Vientiane. You can eat at cafes, street stalls, beer halls or restaurants, offering everything from rice noodles to filet mignon. For good Lao meals, try the Dong Palan Night Market on the east bank of the Nong Chan ponds.  Vientiane is not the illicit entertainment palace it was in the early 1970s: brothels are now prohibited, the marijuana stands have disappeared from the markets and beer has replaced opium as the nightly drug of choice. Entertainment ranges from live music and discos - usually electrified Lao folk music or Western pop - to Thai, Chinese, Indian and even Bulgarian films. Tribal crafts, fabrics, jewellery and furniture are all good buys in Vientiane.  
south_east_asia_laos_environment.html:  Environment  Laos is bordered by Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, China and Myanmar (Burma). Rivers and mountains dominate the country's topography. The largest river, the Mekong (Nam Khong), runs the entire length of the country, providing fertile flood plains for agriculture and forming the country's border with Thailand. It is also Laos' main transportation artery.  Over 70 per cent of the country consists of mountains and plateaus. The Annamite Chain, bordering Vietnam, runs parallel to the Mekong for half the length of the country. The rugged mountains average between 1500-3000m (4920-9840ft) in height, and at their southern extremity open up to form the Bolaven Plateau, a 10,000 sq km (6200 sq m) area that produces mountain rice, coffee, tea and other high-altitude crops. The highest mountain is Phu Bia (2819m/9246ft) in northern Laos.  Two-thirds of Laos is forested and only 10 per cent of the country is considered suitable for agriculture. Given the topography, it is fortunate that Laos has one of the lowest population densities in Asia - around 18 people per sq km (about 11 per sq mi). Most of the population is settled along fertile river valleys, although there are many small tribes living in the hills. The largest population centres, Vientiane and Savannakhet, are both in the Mekong River Valley; 85 per cent of the population lives in rural areas.  Despite large-scale bombing and the use of defoliants in the eastern section of the country during the US war with Vietnam, Laos has one of the most pristine ecologies in South-East Asia. Vegetation consists primarily of varieties associated with monsoon forests such as teak, Asian rosewood and bamboo. About 50 per cent of the country is covered with primary forest and another 30 per cent with secondary growth. The forests are endangered by illegal logging and slash-and-burn agriculture.  Endemic animals include the concolor gibbon, snub-nosed langur, lesser panda and raccoon dog. Exotic species found in neighbouring countries are usually found in greater numbers in Laos because of the forest cover and fewer hunters. They include the Javan mongoose, Siamese hare, leopard cat, tiger, Irrawaddy dolphin, and a few Javan rhinos thought to survive in the Bolaven Plateau. There are 17 recently-opened Biodiversity Conservation Areas scattered throughout the country.  The annual Asian monsoon cycle gives Laos two distinct seasons: May to October is wet, and November to April is dry. Temperatures vary according to altitude. In the Mekong River Valley, the highest temperatures occur between March and April (38 C/100 F) and the lowest between December and January (15 C/59 F). During most of the rainy season, daytime temperatures average around 29 C (84 F) in the lowlands and 25 C (77 F) in the mountain valleys.  
south_east_asia_laos_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Fifteen-day visas are now available for US$30 on arrival at Vientiane's Wattay International Airport and at the International Friendship Bridge at the Nong Khai border crossing between Laos and Thailand, though you'll need to meet a series of conditions to get one. Fifteen-day and 30-day visas are generally issued through embassies, consulates and authorised travel agencies.Health risks: Cholera, dengue fever, hepatitis, Japanese encephalitis, malaria, rabies, typhoidTime: UTC plus seven hoursElectricity: 220VWeights & measures: Metric with local variations in rural areas When to Go  The best time to visit is between November and February - during these months it rains least and isn't too hot. If you're heading up into the mountains, May and July can also be pleasant. Roads can be washed out during rainy season (July to October), but there's plenty of river travel. Peak tourist months are December to February and during August, although there are relatively few visitors at any time.     Events  Festivals in Laos are generally linked to agricultural seasons or historical Buddhist holidays. The lunar new year begins in mid-April and the entire country comes to a halt and celebrates. Houses are cleaned, offerings are made in wats and everyone gets dowsed by water. Bun Bang Fai (the rocket festival) takes place in May. It's an irreverent pre-Buddhist celebration with plenty of processions, music and dancing, accompanied by the firing of bamboo rockets to prompt the heavens to send rain. The week-long That Luang Festival in Vientiane in November has the whole repertoire of fireworks, candlelit processions and music.    
south_east_asia_laos_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  The mysterious Plain of Jars is an undeveloped area near Phonsavan in Xieng Khuang Province where huge jars of unknown origin are scattered, the biggest weighing as much as six tonnes (6.6 tons). The jars have been fashioned from solid stone, which doesn't seem to have come from the area. Many of the smaller jars have been taken away by collectors, but there are still several hundred in the five major groups. Thong Hai Hin, the biggest and most accessible site, has two pavilions and restrooms as well as the largest jar on the plain.  
south_east_asia_lombok_attractions.html:  Attractions  Although officially four separate towns, Ampenan, Mataram, Cakranegara and Sweta virtually merge to form a 'city' on Lombok. Mataram is the administrative capital; Cakranegara the commercial centre; Sweta is the transport terminal and site of the island's largest market; and Ampenan, once the central port, is the prime location for budget accommodation and food.  There are a few weaving factories in Mataram where you can see dyeing and weaving, and buy ikat cloth or handwoven songket sarongs. The hand-and-foot powered looms are amazing contraptions that look as if they haven't altered since the Majapahit dynasty. The Mayura Water Palace, on the main road through Cakranegara, is a pleasant retreat. It was built in 1744 and was part of the royal court of the Balinese kingdom on Lombok. The centrepiece is a large artificial lake with an open-sided pavilion in the centre, connected to the shoreline by a raised footpath. There are other shrines and fountains dotted around the surrounding park. Pura Meru, which is the largest Balinese temple on the island, is directly opposite the water palace.  
south_east_asia_lombok_facts.html:  When to Go  The dry season is better for trekking and travel to remote areas, particularly from June to October. The wet season - October to May - is a little hotter and considerably more humid, but quite OK for travelling; in some ways it's more pleasant than dry, dusty conditions, and the landscape is greener and more attractive.     Events  All three Lombok religions have their own holidays and festivals, with most of them taking place at the beginning of the rainy season (October to December) or at harvest time (April to May). At these times there are celebrations in villages all over the island, and people dress in their niftiest gear. Wooden horses and lions are carried in processions through the streets, and there's nowhere to escape the sound of the the gamelan.  Islamic festivals and holidays include Ramadan, a month (the date changes every year) when everyone fasts between sunup and sunset to conform to the fourth pillar of Islam. Ramadan ends with a huge feast, Eid al-Fitr, where everyone prays together, visits friends, gives presents and stuffs themselves. Eid al-Adah, another moveable event, is the other big feast of the year, and marks the time when Muslims should make the pilgrimage to Mecca. Other events include Pura Meru, a Bali Hindu ceremony celebrated on the June full moon at the temple in Cakranegara, Perang Ketupat, a rain festival held in Lingsar between October and December where celebrants pray and fling sticky rice at each other, and Pujawali, a Bali Hindu celebration honouring the god Batara who lives on Gunung Rinjani.    
south_east_asia_lombok_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Sukarara is a noted weaving and basketwork centre, and unusual for its houses built from local stone. It's set in rice-growing country dotted with small thatch-roofed villages, and nearly every house here has an old wooden handloom, not to mention, of course, a traditionally dressed young woman weaving for the benefit of tour groups. Most of the material is actually made in homes in the surrounding villages, and there's such a wide variety of size, quality and style that it's impossible to give a rough guide to prices. The best pieces, however, are excellent, and well worth the price tag. Penujak, just to the south of Sukarara, is well known for its pottery made from the local red clay and fired in traditional kilns.  
south_east_asia_malaysia_activities.html:  Activities   Diving and snorkelling enthusiasts can take their pick of several excellent east-coast islands, including Tioman Island, Pulau Kapas, Pulau Redang and the Perhentian Islands. For the landlubber, the favourite bicycle touring routes are up the east coast of the peninsula and a cross-peninsula route from Butterworth to Baling. There is great trekking, fishing and bird-watching in the Taman Negara National Park in Pahang, and jungle treks, canoeing and fishing trips can be organised at beautiful Tasik Chini in Pahang.  In Sarawak, Gunung Mulu National Park has a number of spectacular caves, including the 51km long Clearwater Cave, one of the longest in the world. Adventure-caving expeditions can be arranged. The park also has good trekking, especially the four-day hike to the summit of Gunung Mulu (2377m).  In Sabah, Pulau Tiga National Park off Kuala Penyuh has good walking trails across the volcanic island and several snorkelling spots. Many visitors to Sabah climb Mt Kinabalu. Turtle Islands National Park, 40km (25mi) north of Sandakan, is a good place to see green turtles between July and October, when they come ashore to lay their eggs. The Terengganu coast, in north-eastern Peninsular Malaysia, Pulau Pangkor off Lumut, and Selingan Island, north of Sabah, are other favoured turtle-watching locations.  
south_east_asia_malaysia_attractions.html:  Attractions  In 130 years, Kuala Lumpur has grown from nothing to a modern, bussling city of well over a million people. Superficially, KL (as it's almost universally known) may appear to be just another modern Asian city of gleaming skyscrapers, but it retains much of the character and local colour that has been so effectively wiped out in other Asian-boom cities such as Singapore. It has plenty of colonial buildings in its centre, a vibrant Chinatown with street vendors and night markets, and a bustling Little India.  When KL does something, it likes to do it big. The twin Petronas Towers skyscrapers - the tallest building in the world - dominate the skyline, while in Merdeka Square stands a 95m (312ft) flagpole. Despite the economic crisis, Kuala Lumpur is currently the site of large-scale development, with work underway on a new US$8 billion city on the southern fringe of the capital as well as an adjoining 'ultra-high-tech multimedia supercorridor'. Before the Asian economic crisis hit in 1997, there were also plans to build the world's longest building, too.  Budget hotels and hostels can be found in Chinatown and Jalan Pudu Lama. Mid-range hotels are concentrated in Chinatown and on Jalan Bukit Bintang. The night market in Chinatown is the most interesting place to eat in the evening.  
south_east_asia_malaysia_environment.html:  Environment  Malaysia is divided into two distinct parts: Peninsular Malaysia and the East Malaysian provinces of Sabah and Sarawak in North Borneo. The two regions are 650km (403mi) apart, separated by the South China Sea. Peninsular Malaysia shares borders with Thailand and Singapore. Sabah and Sarawak border Kalimantan (the Indonesian part of Borneo), and Sarawak surrounds the tiny enclave of Brunei. The Andaman Sea is on the west coast of the peninsula. The east coast of the peninsula, Sabah, and Sarawak all adjoin the South China Sea.  Peninsular Malaysia accounts for 40 percent of the country's land mass. Several mountain ranges run north-south along the spine of the peninsula. There is a wide, fertile plain on the west coast, and a narrow coastal plain on the east. Sabah and Sarawak are covered by dense jungles and have large river systems. Mt Kinabalu (4101m/13,450ft) in Sabah is one of the highest peaks in South-East Asia.  More than 60 per cent of the country is still rainforest, but a government plan to build a huge hydroelectric dam in Sarawak is expected to decimate 27,600ha (69,000ac) of forest, which does not augur well for the future. There are 8000 species of flowering plants in Peninsular Malaysia alone, including 2000 tree species, 800 different orchids and 200 types of palm. Fauna includes elephants, rhinos, tigers, leopards, tapirs, sun bears, orangutans and gibbons. East Malaysia has one of the most abundant and varied bird populations in the world.  Malaysia is hot and humid all year. Temperatures are usually between 20-30 C (68-86 F); humidity is usually 90 per cent. The region has a monsoonal climate, but only the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia has a real rainy season. The wettest season on the west coast of the peninsula is between September and December; on the east coast and in Sabah and Sarawak it's between October and February. Rain, when it comes, generally interrupts the sunshine only briefly; most of it falls in short, strong bursts.  
south_east_asia_malaysia_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Commonwealth citizens and most European nationals do not need visas for visits of less than three months. Visitors are usually issued an extendable 30 or 60-day visa on arrival.Health risks: Dengue fever, hepatitis, malaria, rabiesTime: GMT/UTC plus eight hoursElectricity: 220-240V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric When to Go  Malaysia is hot and humid all year so you're going to have sunshine and sweat pretty much whenever you visit. It is, however, best to avoid the November to January rainy season on Peninsula Malaysia's east coast if you want to enjoy the beaches. The time to see turtles on the east coast is between May and September.     Events  The major Islamic events are connected with Ramadan, the ninth month of the Muslim calendar. The major Malaysian festival is Hari Raya Puasa, which marks the end of Ramadan with three days of joyful celebrations. Hari Raya Haji marks the successful completion of the hajj (pilgrimage to Mecca) with a two-day feast of cakes and sweets. Chinese New Year, in January or February, is welcomed in with dances, parades and much good cheer. The festival of Thaipusam in late January is one of the most dramatic Hindu festivals (now banned in India) during which devotees honour Lord Subramaniam with acts of amazing masochism - definitely not for the squeamish. In KL, devotees march to nearby Batu Caves; in Penang, the event is celebrated at the Waterfall Temple. The Kota Belud Tamu Besar is a huge tribal gathering held in May at Kota Belud near Kota Kinabalu in Sabah. It includes a massive market, traditional ceremonies, ornately decorated horsemen, medicine men and tribal handicrafts. A smaller tamu is held in Kota Belud every Sunday if you're not visiting during May.    
south_east_asia_malaysia_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Just off the coast of Perlis are the 104 islands of the Langkawi group. The islands are little visited, despite their good beaches, and the main island, Langkawi, has direct boat connections with Thailand.  Low-key Taiping, in Perak, has beautiful lake gardens, well-preserved Anglo-Malay buildings, a good night-market and hardly any tourists. Also in Perak, is the historic royal town of Kuala Kangsar, which has fine mosques and palaces, and was the birthplace of Malaysia's rubber industry. Ipoh, Perak's capital, has elegant mansions and impressive cave temples.  Although pretty inaccessible, a visit to Tasik Chini in central Pahang state is well worth the effort. It's actually a series of 12 lakes surrounded by beautiful jungle territory, with great treks, and it's rumoured to be the haunt of a cousin of the Loch Ness monster.   Taman Negara National Park, accessible only by boat, offers a rare opportunity to visit one of the most pristine primary rainforests in the world. The park covers 4343 sq km (2693 sq mi), sprawling across Pahang, Kelantan and Terengganu. The wildlife is varied and abundant, but more evident on extended treks or boat trips away from the more frequented areas.  
south_east_asia_manila_activities.html:  Activities   Historical tours, especially around Intramuros, are popular with tourists in Manila. The main drawcards, however, are the city's bars and clubs where locals and tourists do their fair share of drinking and dancing. Beaches around the city are popular for both swimming and diving.  
south_east_asia_manila_attractions.html:  Attractions  The original Chinese settlement on this site was rebuilt as a fort in 1590 by the Spanish, who replaced the wooden buildings with stone. Gradually the area was expanded until it became a walled city containing 15 churches and six monasteries. The walls are 3km (1.8mi) long and 6m (20ft) high, and are about all that remains after WWII finished off what General Douglas MacArthur had started. MacArthur used Intramuros as his base, tearing down old buildings and widening the roads.  In recent years, renovations have begun on some of the remaining buildings. Casa Manila is restored to its former glory, while the church and monastery of San Agustin has remained virtually untouched since the earliest construction at the site. The Manila Cathedral has been damaged or destroyed six times since it was built. You can also see the ruins of Fort Santiago, which is now a pleasant park, and the interesting Rizal Shrine Museum, devoted to the Filipino martyr. Intramuros is just south of the river, in the heart of Manila.  
south_east_asia_manila_facts.html:  When to Go  With maximum temperatures hovering above 30 C (86 F), Manila isn't the place to go to cool off. There are two seasons: the dry season lasts from December to May; the rest of the year is sodden with heavy rain. From June to November you might find yourself in a typhoon. The best time to visit Manila and surrounds is February to April.     Events  Offices and banks are closed on public holidays, although shops and department stores stay open. All major Christian festivals are celebrated, as well as Independence Day (12 June), Bonifacio Day (National Heroes Day, 30 November) and Rizal Day (30 December). On Good Friday the entire country virtually closes down. Even public transport and the national airlines stop running. There are many crucifixion ceremonies throughout the country on this day, which have become popular attractions, especially those at San Fernando and Antipolo, near Manila.    
south_east_asia_manila_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  This small island at the mouth of Manila Bay was the site of the US-Filipino last stand against the invading Japanese. The island certainly didn't turn out to be as impregnable as the defenders thought, but they did hold out for a considerable time. Now the island is a national shrine. Visitors can look around the network of underground bunkers and inspect the rusty relics of the old fortress armaments. The MV Sun Cruiser ferry to Corregidor leaves at 8 am daily from the dock near Manila's cultural centre. An extra service operates on weekends. The island is about 50km (30mi) from the capital across the Bay of Manila.  
south_east_asia_myanmar_activities.html:  Activities  Myanmar isn't exactly bursting with opportunities to get out and stretch your legs, and most lung-inflating activity is still restricted by the government. Out-of-town hiking is permitted in parts of Shan State, and you can hire guides in Kalaw and Nyaungshwe. You can make day-hikes to minority villages around Kalaw and Pindaya, do some jungle hiking on the island of Lampi Kyun or head uphill at Mt Kyaikto.  It's fine to bring your own bike into Myanmar and cycle anywhere in the unrestricted areas. The terrain is rough and unsuited to anything but the sturdiest mountain bike, and parts are very difficult to come by. You can hire Indian and Chinese bikes in Mandalay.   Diving tours are almost non-existent. About the only organised diving is around the Myeik Archipelago - liveaboard cruises are run out of Phuket and Kawthaung. Plenty of big-league diving sites have been identifitied, and business should be booming within the next couple of years.  
south_east_asia_myanmar_attractions.html:  Attractions  Yangon lies in the fertile delta country of southern Myanmar on the wide Yangon River about 30km (19mi) from the sea. Although the population hovers around 4 million, the city seems so full of trees and shade that some neighbourhoods are practically jungle, giving it a totally different feel from other Asian cities of comparable size. At night, Yangon's wide boulevards come alive with hordes of stalls selling delicious-looking food and piles of huge cigars. If you can close your eyes to the decay of the old colonial architecture downtown, you'll probably agree that this is one of the most charming cities in Asia.  Yangon is home to the gold-plated Shwedagon Paya, which dominates the city from its hilltop site. Legend has it that the original stupa was built to enshrine eight of Buddha's hairs. Today's mighty monument was built in the 18th century and is surrounded by an incredible assortment of statues, temples, shrines, images and pavilions. The Shwedagon was called 'a beautiful winking wonder' by Kipling and it truly is a magical place. Other sights include the colonial architecture of the legendary Strand Hotel, the colossal reclining Buddha in Chaukhtatgyi Paya and the peaceful Kandawgyi and Inya Lakes. Pro-democracy landmarks include the Martyr's Mausoleum and Aung San Suu Kyi's House.  Since the privatisation of the hotel industry in 1993, there has been an explosion of hotel and guesthouse development in Yangon. The cheapest guesthouses are near the river in the western part of the city; there are other clean and friendly options near the railway station. The best authentic Burmese cuisine is in the Shwedagon Paya area, but there are lots of places around the city centre. Be aware that hardly any food is available anywhere in the city after about 9 pm.  Apart from the impossibly crowded buses, getting around Yangon is not too difficult. Myanmar's version of the trishaw ( sai-kaa) is good for short trips; catch a car taxi or one of the many tiny three-wheeled Mazdas for anything longer.  
south_east_asia_myanmar_environment.html:  Environment  Myanmar shares borders with Thailand, Laos, China, India and Bangladesh. Southern Myanmar borders the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea. The central part of the country is characterised by wide rivers and expansive plains. The major river, the Ayeyarwady (formerly spelt Irrawaddy) is navigable for 1600km (900mi) of its length and its flood plains form the country's main agricultural centre. Mountains rise to the east along the Thai border and to the north to meet the eastern end of the Himalayan range. The highest peak, Hkakabo Razi (5881m/19,290ft), is on the Myanmar-Tibet border. It's the highest peak in South-East Asia.  Almost half of Myanmar is covered by forest, but if timber concessions (and smuggling) to Thailand and other Asian countries continue at current rates, widespread deforestation is inevitable. About 15 per cent of total land is cultivated, mainly with rice. Burma used to be the world's largest exporter of rice but exports have diminished considerably. Two thirds of the population is employed in agriculture and less than 10 per cent in manufacturing. According to UN standards, Myanmar is now one of the 10 poorest countries in the world.  There are three distinct seasons: the cool, dry winter from November to February; the unpleasantly hot summer from March to May; and the wet, humid monsoon from May to October.  
south_east_asia_myanmar_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Entry into Myanmar requires a passport valid for at least six months from the time of entry. 28-day tourist visas are issued and cost US$18Health risks: cholera, dysentery, hepatitis, malaria, rabies, typhoidTime: UTC plus 6.5 hoursElectricity: 230V, 50 Hz (when it's working)Weights & measures: Imperial with local variations When to Go  Climate wise, the best season for visiting Myanmar is November to February, when it rains least and isn't too hot. If you're hitting the hill stations or the Rakhine coast, try March to May - on the other hand, Bagan and Mandalay are intolerable during these months. Myanmar is least crowded in May, June and September.     Events  Festivals are drawn-out, enjoyable affairs and generally take place or culminate on full-moon days. There's often a country fair atmosphere about these celebrations, and they may feature stalls, pwes, music and boxing bouts. Independence Day on 4 January is marked by a seven-day fair in Yangon. Around the middle of April, the three-day Thingyan (water festival) starts the Burman new year. This is the height of the hot season, and it is sensibly celebrated by throwing buckets of cold water at anyone who dares venture into the streets. Girls chase boys through the streets, covering their bound victims in soot and parading them about; later, cows and fish are dressed up, adorned and set free by processions of dancing drummers. In October, the sober three-month Buddhist 'Lent' ends and the Festival of Light celebrates Buddha's return from heaven. For three days Myanmar is lit up by fire balloons and paper lanterns and families make offerings at the local pagoda.    
south_east_asia_myanmar_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Located in the Ayeyarwady delta about 190km (118mi) west of Yangon, this premier port city is noted for its handicrafts (pottery and hand-painted umbrellas) and the Shwemokhtaw Pagoda (which was built by the three lovers of a Muslim princess). A major festival is held at the pagoda over the full-moon period in May. You can't fly to Pathein, and the train trip is laborious. Your best bet is the 18-hour overnight ferry trip from Yangon, travelling along the Twante Canal and through the delta waterways.  
south_east_asia_philippines_activities.html:  Activities  Several hotels in Angeles offer tours to Mt Pinatubo which erupted violently in 1991 and left an amazing landscape. Walk among the ravines, drive up in a jeep or arrange an aerial tour. You can also climb Mayon, in southern Luzon, which has been described as the world's most perfect volcanic cone. This 2450m (8036ft) active volcano has erupted four times since 1968, the last time in February 1993. It takes several days to climb and guides can be found in Legaspi. Other appealing climbs include the Mt Taal, south of Manila, described as the smallest and most dangerous volcano in the world; and the Philippines' highest peak, Mt Apo, on Mindanao.  There are wonderful trekking opportunities along Luzon's Pacific Coast, especially in Bikol and Quezon provinces. For those who want to escape motorised transport completely, nothing beats walking on Batan Island or Lubang, where the horse cart still retains its place as the primary mode of transport. Wildlife enthusiasts should visit Calauit Island, where the wildlife sanctuary has been breeding African animals successfully for nearly 20 years. Giraffes, zebras and gazelles can be seen.  With 7000 islands, the Philippines has a wealth of opportunities for diving and snorkelling. Favoured spots are Boracay, Alona Beach (Bohol), Puerto Princesa (Palawan) and the island of Apo. Canoeists can shoot the rapids in Pagsanjan, 70km (43mi) south-east of Manila. If it looks familiar in places, that's because Coppola filmed parts of Apocalypse Now on the river. Spelunkers can explore Palawan's Underground River, an 8km (5mi) long meandering network of caves.  
south_east_asia_philippines_attractions.html:  Attractions  Many people dismiss Manila as nothing more than a 12 million person-strong entry point to more interesting rural destinations in the Philippines. And while the less built-up areas of the country do offer much to the adventurous traveller, those who stop to smell the incense and the pollution find that the capital city has a few hidden treasures of its own. Manila is a modern-looking city - a result of virtual destruction during WWII - but the sprawling city boasts its fair share of colonial ruins, enough to keep those historically inclined amused for a while, anyway. If you're just looking for a good time, Manila could be just the ticket: bars and entertainment venues could keep you well fed, well greased and in the party mood for months on end.  
south_east_asia_philippines_environment.html:  Environment  The Philippines consists of 7107 islands in the western Pacific Ocean, only 2000 of which are inhabited. Luzon and Mindanao are by far the largest, and comprise roughly 66 per cent of the country's area. Only about 1000 islands are larger than one sq km (0.4 sq mi) and 2500 aren't even named. The Philippines' nearest neighbours are Taiwan (north), Eastern Malaysia and Brunei (south-west), and Indonesia (south).  The archipelago has a volcanic topography and experiences frequent seismic activity. There are 37 volcanoes in the archipelago and the highest peak is Mt Apo (2954m/9689ft) in Mindanao. About half the country is under cultivation and about a third remains forested, despite tree-felling and slash-and-burn agriculture. There are more than a 1000 species of birds and animals, notably wild dwarf buffalo, mouse deer, crocodiles and pythons. There are over 10,000 species of tree, shrub and fern, the most common of which are palms and bamboos.  The Philippines are hot and humid year-round. The weather pattern across the archipelago is complex, but can be roughly divided into the dry season (January to June) and the wet season (July to December). The average annual temperature is 25 C (77 F). The best time to visit is between December and May, but avoid Manila in May when temperatures reach 40 C (104 F).  
south_east_asia_philippines_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: For most foreign visitors visas are not needed for stays of less than 21 days. Three-month visas can be obtained in advance and cost around US$35. Multiple-entry visas (lasting six and 12 months) are also available but are expensive and only allow for stays of 59 days at a time. Visa extensions are possible and generally faster to obtain in regional areas.Health risks: cholera, hepatitis, malaria, rabiesTime: UTC plus eight hoursElectricity: 220V, 60 HzWeights & measures: MetricTourism: 1.2 million visitors per year When to Go  Generally, the best time to travel is from the middle of December to the middle of May - off-season for typhoons. In the Christmas and Easter breaks, however, everyone is travelling and you'll have trouble getting a seat on any form of transport.  January and May have the most colourful festivals, the rice terraces of Luzon look best in March and April, and this is also the best time for island-hopping.     Events   New Year's Day is celebrated with great vigour and plenty of fireworks. On 9 January, the Black Nazarene Procession, the largest procession in the country, carries a life-size, blackwood statue of Jesus through the streets of Quiapo. The Filipino version of Mardi Gras is the three-day Ati-Atihan, celebrated in Kalibo on Panay in the third week in January. On Good Friday, there are many scourges throughout the country, which have become popular attractions, especially those at San Fernando and Antipolo, near Manila. There are more processions on Flores de Mayo in May, this time in honour of the Virgin Mary. Independence Day is celebrated on 12 June with military parades. There are local festivals taking place just about every week of the year somewhere in the Philippines.    
south_east_asia_philippines_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  For real Robinson Crusoe fare, try the islands north of Bohol. Around Gutob Bay, between Culion and Busuanga islands, try Dibutonay, Maltatayoc and Horse islands. The Batanes Islands in the north are surprisingly unspoilt and differ from other Philippines islands because of their isolation. They offer the chance to visit remote villages, where you may even get to stay with the mayor.  
south_east_asia_singapore_activities.html:  Activities  If shopping is not providing enough physical exertion there are plenty of other options for shaking it about. Given the polluted waters, none of Singapore's beaches are particularly great for swimming, although there are safe swimming areas at East Coast Park, Sentosa and the other islands. A better option, if you're not staying at a hotel with its own pool, are the excellent public swimming complexes. Further watersport options include windsurfing and sailing off the beaches, while dragonboat racing at the watersports centre is popular with locals and expats alike.   Cycling enthusiasts can take two wheels through the streets or on nature trails.  Singapore has plenty of golf courses, though some are members only or don't allow visitors to play on weekends. Tennis and squash facilities are also readily available.   Walking is still one of the best ways to get around. Singapore is a compact area with many of its star attractions within walking distance of the city district. The inner-city ethnic areas of Chinatown, Little India and Arab St are quickly losing their traditional cultures to drinking bars and venues but they are still fascinating areas to walk through.  
south_east_asia_singapore_attractions.html:  Attractions  The mark of Sir Stamford Raffles is indelibly stamped on central Singapore. By moving the business district south of the river and making the northern area the administrative centre, Raffles created the framework that remained the blueprint for central Singapore through generations of colonial rule and the republican years of independence. Places of interest include: Empress Place Building, an imposing Victorian structure, built in 1865, that houses a museum, art and antique galleries and a chic restaurant; the incongruous Padang, where flannelled cricketers once caught, bowled and batted in the searing heat; Raffles Hotel, a Singaporean institution which has become a byword for oriental luxury; and any number of imposing churches, such as St Andrew's Cathedral and the Cathedral of the Good Shepherd.  
south_east_asia_singapore_environment.html:  Environment  Singapore consists of the main, low-lying Singapore Island and 63 smaller islands within its territorial waters. Urban areas comprise almost 50% of the land area, while parkland, reservoirs, plantations and open military areas occupy 40%. Singapore Island measures approximately 42km (26mi) east to west and 23km (14mi) north to south at its widest points. While there are built-up, high-density areas all around the island, the main city area is in the south, built on the shores of the Singapore River. The Central Business District (CBD) is at the southern shore of the river's mouth. Chinatown adjoins the CBD to the southwest. To the north of the Singapore River is the colonial district, which has many reminders of British rule. Further north again is Little India and Arab St. Orchard Rd runs northwest from the colonial district.  To the west of the island is Jurong, an industrial area with a sprinkling of tourist attractions. The east coast has some of the older residential areas, a major beach park and the international airport. The northeast is the location of huge housing developments and the central north of the island has most of Singapore's undeveloped land and remaining forest. A 1km (0.6mi) causeway connects Singapore with Johor Bahru in Malaysia; a second causeway has opened on the west of the island to relieve congestion. Under current plans, land reclamation and housing developments should dramatically alter Singapore's geography.  Singapore is one giant sauna. It's hot and humid year-round, with the temperature almost never dropping below 20 C (68 F), even at night, and usually climbing to 30 C (86 F) during the day. Humidity is high, hovering around the 75% mark. Singapore is wettest from November to January and at its driest from May to July - the difference between the two, however, is slight. And due to Singapore's proximity to the equator, it receives a steady diet of sunshine all year.  
south_east_asia_singapore_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most Western nationals either do not require a visa at all or do not require a visa for a social stay of up to 90 days. A 30-day permit is issued on arrival, and extensions are difficult to obtain.Health risks: Hepatitis ATime: GMT/UTC+8Electricity: 220-240V, 50 HzWeights & measures: Metric with local variations When to Go  Go anytime. Climate is not a major consideration, as Singapore gets fairly steady annual rainfall. You may like to co-ordinate your visit with various festivals and events: Thaipusam is one of the most spectacular festivals, occurring around February. If shopping and eating are your major concerns, July is a good month as the Singapore Food Festival and Great Singapore Sale are held then.     Events  Singapore's polyglot population celebrates a number of festivals and events. Chinese, Hindu and Muslim celebrations follow a lunar calendar so dates of festivities vary from year to year. Chinese New Year, in January or February, is welcomed in with dragon dances, parades and much good cheer. Chinatown is lit up and there are fireworks and night markets. During Ramadan, food stalls are set up in the evening in the Arab St district, near the Sultan Mosque. Hari Raya Puasa, the end of Ramadan in January or February, is marked by three days of joyful celebrations. Vesak Day in April or May celebrates Buddha's birth, enlightenment and death. It is marked by various events, including the release of caged birds to symbolise the setting free of captive souls. The Dragon Boat Festival, held in May or June, commemorates the death of a Chinese patriot who drowned himself as a protest against government corruption. It is celebrated with boat races across Marina Bay, accompanied by much eating of rice dumplings.  The Festival of the Hungry Ghosts is usually celebrated in September. This is when the souls of the dead are released for feasting and entertainment on earth. Chinese operas are performed for them and food is offered; the ghosts eat the spirit of the food but thoughtfully leave the substance for the mortal celebrants. The festival of Thaipusam is one of the most dramatic Hindu festivals and is now banned in India. Devotees honour Lord Subramaniam with acts of amazing body-piercing masochism - definitely not for the squeamish. In Singapore, devotees march in procession from the Sri Srinivasa Perumal Temple on Serangoon Rd to the Chettiar Hindu Temple on Tank Rd. Dates for the festival are based on the lunar calendar.    
south_east_asia_singapore_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  There aren't too many places in Singapore that could be considered virgin wilderness but there are some that offer an escape from the hubbub of the central district. Changi Village, on the east coast, no longer has traditional kampong houses but it does have a village atmosphere. And, if the beach is not exactly a tropical paradise it does have the advantage of being almost deserted during the weekdays.  On the way to Changi Village it is worth visiting the infamous Changi Prison. The complex is still used as a prison but next to the main gate is the Changi Chapel and Museum, which holds a replica of the chapel used by interned Allied prisoners during WWII. Memorabilia and notes pinned to the walls of the chapel are a poignant reminder of that particular part of Asian history.  
south_east_asia_sumatra_attractions.html:  Attractions  Medan (pop 2 million) is the capital of north Sumatra and the third largest city in Indonesia. It is a huge, sprawling city and a popular entry/exit point for travellers. The solid Dutch buildings of the affluent older suburbs inspire images of bloated bureaucrats and burghers from the colonial era, while jerry-built lean-tos house the bulk of its population.  The city's two finest buildings are the Istana Maimoon (Maimoun Palace) and the magnificent black-domed Mesjid Raya. There are some fine examples of European architecture along Jalan Sukarno-Hatta, such as Bank Indonesia and the High Court. There are a number of museums, including the Museum of North Sumatra, which has excellent coverage of the region's culture and history, and the weaponry-and-warfare-influenced Bukit Barisan Military Museum. You can see cultural performances at Taman Budaya.  Much of the budget accommodation is close to the city centre. Jalan Semarang, a small street between Jalan Pandu and Jalan Bandung, has great food stalls offering Indonesian and Chinese meals late into the night.  
south_east_asia_sumatra_facts.html:  When to Go  May/June and September/October are the best months to visit, and though they're very busy periods you can usually find a place away from the crowds. The main tourist season is during the European summer in July and August, when prices rise and accommodation and transport can be tight. The main Indonesian holiday periods are the end of Ramadan, when some resorts are packed to overflowing and prices skyrocket. Another peak time is Christmas, when high school students take off by the busload to visit tourist attractions. Travel in the less developed areas can be difficult during the wet season, from about November to March.     Events   A regional Calendar of Events listing national holidays, festivals particular to the region and other events throughout the year is available from tourist offices in Sumatra. The most important time for Muslims, of course, is Ramadan (Buluan Puasa), the traditional Muslim month of daily fasting, which falls around January to February.  Idul Adha is another important Muslim holiday, commemorating Abraham's willingness to sacrifice his son Isaac, and it is celebrated around April to May.   Independence Dayis celebrated on 17 August with a national public holiday, parades and special events. Further Muslim holidays are  Muharram, the Islamic New Year in April-May;  Hari Natal, the Prophet Muhammed's birthday in July; and  Isra Miraj Nabi Muhammed, the ascencion of the prophet Mumammed in December.    
south_east_asia_sumatra_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Time, patience and endurance are vital if you intend to wander off Sumatra's tourist trail, and such travel is not overly encouraged by authorities. The beautiful mountain lake of Danau Ranau is in the Bukit Barisan mountains of southern Sumatra. It is one of the least spoiled - and least accessible - of Sumatra's mountain lakes, and you can hike, climb Gunung Seminung (1881m/6170ft) or relax in the quiet atmosphere and cool climate.  Most routes to Danau Ranau go through the Trans-Sumatran Highway town of Baturaja, which you can reach from the main terminal in Palembang. From Baturaja it is a three and a half hour trip to Bandar Agung, by the lake, with a change at Simpangsender.  
south_east_asia_thailand_activities.html:  Activities  Thailand's two coastlines and countless islands attract schools of water babies. Diving and snorkelling are particularly popular around Phuket, Pattaya, and the Similan and Surin islands. The islands of Chumphon Province, just north of Surat Thani, are less developed and the reefs here are practically undisturbed. Touring the islands and coastal limestone formations around Phuket and Ao Phang-Nga by inflatable canoe has become an increasingly popular activity. The typical sea-canoe tour seeks out half-submerged caves, timing excursions so that they can paddle into the caverns at low tide. Inland raft trips are available down the Mae Klong River in central Thailand in Kanchanaburi Province and on the Pai River in Mae Hong Son Province.  Wilderness walking is northern Thailand's biggest draw. Chiang Mai is the main centre for treks into mountainous areas inhabited by hill tribes, but there are also trekking areas around Mae Hong Son and Chiang Rai. Cyclists favour the flat terrain and lush river scenery of the Mekong River area in the north and north-east of Thailand.   Meditation study is a decidedly less sweaty 'activity' popular with many visitors to Thailand. There are dozens of temples and meditation centres dotted throughout the country which welcome sincere guests. Instruction and accommodation are free of charge, though donations are expected. There are centres which provide instruction in English in Bangkok and Chiang Mai, amongst others. If you'd prefer to direct your energies outward, tuition in Thai boxing is available in Bangkok and in Naklua, north of Pattaya. Be warned that the training is gruelling and involves full-contact sparring. Chiang Mai has also become a centre for classes in Thai cooking and traditional massage.  
south_east_asia_thailand_attractions.html:  Attractions  It's worth putting up with the coronary-inducing traffic jams, pollution, annual floods and sticky weather to experience one of Asia's most exciting cities. Bangkok has dominated Thailand's urban hierarchy, as well as its political, commercial and cultural life, since the late 18th century.  Bangkok proper seethes on the east side of the Chao Phraya River and can be divided into two by the main north-south train line. Old Bangkok glitters in the portion between the river and the railway and it is here that most of the older temples and the original palace are located. The new Bangkok is east of the railway, covering many times more area than the old city. It incorporates the main commercial and tourist districts, which give way to a vast residential sprawl.  For a city of this size, Bangkok is surprisingly full of quiet escapes. Just step out of the street noise and into the calm of one of the city's 400 wats (temple-monasteries) or take a river taxi on the Chao Phraya River. Must sees include Wat Phra Kaew and the Grand Palace, Wat Pho and Wat Traimit. This latter is the Temple of the Golden Buddha, home to the impressive 3m tall, 5 1/2-tonne solid-gold Buddha image. Silk entrepreneur Jim Thompson's House manages to avoid being a touristy nightmare by virtue of the singular vision which created this haven of traditional Thai art and architecture. An expat American, Thompson was a tireless curator and promoter of Thai culture until his mysterious disappearance in 1967.  Other sights include the touristy Wat Sai floating market in Thonburi, a boat trip through the city's extensive and pongy network of canals ( klongs), the Saovabha Institute Snake Farm and the renowned Oriental Hotel.  Entertainment ranges from classical dance and Thai boxing to the unfortunate go-go bars of Patpong. For alternative night entertainment, check out the night markets behind Ratchaprarop Rd in Pratunam. Bangkok is a great place to shop if you don't overdose on T-shirts and fake designer clothing. It's worth stocking up on cheap clothes for your trip or getting smarter clothes for your wardrobe at home.  Khao San Rd in Banglamphu is the traditional budget-traveller centre, but the Sukhumvit Rd area has a better selection of mid-range hotels. Banglamphu and neighbouring Thewet are the best spots for budget eating. If you want to go for a city stroll and experience day-to-day Bangkok, head for Chinatown and Pahurat, the busy Chinese and Indian market districts.  As might be expected from one of Asia's major transport hubs, getting to and from Bangkok is harder to avoid than to engineer. All Thailand's major train and bus routes terminate here and this is a good spot to shop around for local and international travel bargains. Getting around Bangkok is a lead-lined lung and sooty-booger affair, with none of the desperately needed schemes to alleviate traffic congestion breaking out of air-conditioned boardrooms. River or canal journeys are infinitely preferable to road transport but increasingly, tarmac is the only option.  Bangkok's bus system is fairly easy to navigate, but its efficiency is hampered by the snail's pace of traffic (a zippy 13km/h average during commuter hours). Taxis are mostly metered and not too expensive, tuk-tuks (three-wheeled power saws gone beserk) are not much cheaper but have the perilous advantage of being able to weave in and out of choked traffic. Train is the best city-airport connection, taking only half an hour as against up to three hours by bus or taxi.  
south_east_asia_thailand_environment.html:  Environment  Thailand shares borders with Malaysia, Myanmar (Burma), Laos and Cambodia. The country's east coast borders the Gulf of Thailand and the west coast abuts the Andaman Sea. The country is divided into four main zones: the fertile, central plains of the Chao Phraya River; the poorer region of the 300m (985ft) high northeast plateau; the fertile valley and mountains of Northern Thailand; and the rainforested southern peninsula. The highest peak is the 2596m (8512ft) Doi Inthanon in Chiang Mai province.  One-fifth of Thailand is covered by monsoon forest or rainforest, and the country has an incredible array of fruit trees, bamboo and tropical hardwoods. There are 80 national parks and 32 wildlife sanctuaries, covering 13 per cent of the country. They contain more than 850 resident and migratory species of birds and dwindling numbers of tigers, leopards, elephants and Asiatic black bears. Unfortunately, attempts to stop the logging of rainforests and illegal trafficking in endangered species are fighting an uphill battle against corruption, officials only too happy to make a buck on the side, and tourists packing an exotica or two down their dacks as they walk through customs. The tiger, for instance, is one of the most endangered of Thailand's mammals but the market for tiger organs, particularly in China, is so lucrative that poaching is still a viable career option.  Overdevelopment on Ko Phi Phi is starving the coral reefs of sunlight and smothering the surface in pollutants: the destruction of the reef is a micro-example of the problems occuring on a national scale, with the finger being pointed in the direction of tourism. In May 1999, protestors packed the beach where the filming of 'The Beach' was taking place: environmentalists were concerned that filming would destroy the delicate eco-balance of the beach. Ironically, the film was about the destruction of native cultures and environments by hordes of dropped-out, alternative life-seeking backpackers (curiously, the filmmakers were silent on the issue of hordes of filmmakers destroying delicate eco-balances). One of the main culprits according to the Alex Garland, author of the best selling novel, is Lonely Planet.  Thailand's climate is ruled by monsoons that produce three seaons in northern, northeastern and central Thailand and two in southern Thailand. Generally the 'dry and wet monsoon climate' arrives sometime between May and July and lasts into November. It is followed by a dry season from November to May in which temperatures are relatively lower until February and then begin to soar from March to May.  
south_east_asia_thailand_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Most visitors can stay for 30 days without a visaHealth risks: AIDS, cholera, dengue fever, Japanese encephalitis, malaria, rabies Time: UTC plus seven hoursElectricity: 220V, 50 Hz Weights & measures: Metric with local variationsTourism: average 8.5 million visitors annually When to Go  The best overall time for visiting most of Thailand vis a vis climate is between November and February - during these months it rains least and is not too hot. The south is best visited when the rest of Thailand is miserably hot (March to May), and the north is best from mid-November to early December or when it starts warming up again in February. If you're spending time in Bangkok, be prepared to roast in April and do some wading in October - probably the worst two months, weather-wise, in the capital. The peak tourist months are December and August, and the least crowded months are May, June and September.     Events  Many festivals are linked to Buddhist or Brahman rituals and follow a lunar calendar. New Year, Songkran, is celebrated in mid-April by 'bathing' Buddha images, paying respects to monks and elders by sprinkling water over their hands, and generally tossing a lot of the H2O in the air for fun. Expect to be soaked unless you want to party-poop in your room. The sowing and harvesting of rice has given rise to a cycle of festivals. To kick off the official rice-planting season in early May, the king participates in an ancient Brahman ritual in a large field in central Bangkok. A Rocket Festival is held in May in the country's north-east, using a volatile mixture of bamboo and gunpowder to convince the sky to send rain for the new rice season. The rice harvest from September through to May leads to joyous local celebrations throughout Thailand. The Vegetarian Festival in Phuket and Trang, during which devout Chinese Buddhists eat only vegetarian food, runs for nine days from late-September to early-October. Merit-making processions are the most visible expression of this festival, but there are also ceremonies at Chinese temples. The Elephant Roundup in Surin in November is an elephantine festival popular with the kind of people who enjoy watching pachyderms play soccer. During the Loi Krathong Festival, held after the rainy season (usually in November), candle-lit floats are cast into waterways to bring good fortune for the coming year.    
south_east_asia_thailand_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Tucked away in the countryside to the east of Bangkok, this provincial town is hardly visited by foreign tourists - mainly because it's not on the major road or rail networks out of the capital. It's home to one of the most sacred Buddha images in Thailand - Phra Phuttha Sothon - which is housed in the Wat Sothon Wararam Worawihaan. The origins of the modest 198-cm-high Phra Phuttha Sothon are cloaked in mystery but the image is said to be associated with a famous monk with holy powers who supposedly predicted the exact moment of his death.  Chachoengsao makes a great day-trip destination to escape Bangkok's turbulence and Ayuthaya's tourists and touts, and it's a fine place to experience provincial Thai life. Buses to Chachoengsao leave frequently from Bangkok's eastern terminal; ditto trains from Bangkok's Hualamphong station. It takes one and a half hours to reach Chachoengsao by both modes of transport.  
south_east_asia_vietnam_activities.html:  Activities  Vietnam has 3450km (2140mi) of coastline, and you can hire snorkelling and diving gear at most beach resorts. The most popular beaches include Vung Tau, just north of the Mekong Delta (which suffers from polluted water, although there are cleaner beaches nearby); Nha Trang, near Dalat; and the 30km-long expanse of beaches named China Beach, near Danang - but be careful of the currents. There is good hiking, horse riding and cycling in the beautiful countryside around Dalat, while some of the national parks are also good for hiking. Vietnam is a favourite place for long-distance cycling because much of the country is flat and the shortage of vehicles makes for light traffic off the main highways.   Spelunkers should head for the spectacular Pong Nha river caves, north-west of Dong Hoi. Those interested in the Vietnam War can walk part of the Ho Chi Minh Trail, a series of roads, trails and paths used as supply routes by the North Vietnamese during the war. It ran from North Vietnam southward through the Truong Son Mountains and into western Laos. Those with a 4WD can drive a 60km (37mi) stretch between Aluoi and Hue. The network of tunnels at Cu Chi (35km - 22mi - from Saigon) and Vinh Moc (near the old border between North and South Vietnam) enable visitors to experience the claustrophobic life led by villagers and guerrillas during the war.  
south_east_asia_vietnam_attractions.html:  Attractions  Ho Chi Minh City is the heart and soul of Vietnam. It's a bustling, dynamic and industrious centre, the largest city in the country, the economic capital and the cultural trendsetter. The streets, where much of the city's life takes place, is a myriad of street markets, shops, pavement cafes, stands-on-wheels and vendors selling wares spread out on sidewalks. The city churns, ferments, bubbles and fumes. Yet within the teeming metropolis are the timeless traditions and beauty of an ancient culture. Sights include the Giac Lam Pagoda, Reunification Palace, the neo-Romanesque Notre Dame Cathedral, the beautiful Museum of Ho Chi Minh City, Ben Thanh market and the harrowing War Remnants Museum.  Central Ho Chi Minh City is the place to be at night on weekends and holidays. The streets are jam-packed with young locals cruising the town on bicycles and motorbikes, out to see and be seen. The Municipal Theatre area is the hub for young hipsters. Entertainment ranges from disco, to bars such as No 5 Ly Tu Trong and the Hard Rock Cafe, where Western music is played, or experiencing traditional Vietnamese music at the Conservatory of Music.  Budget travellers tend to congregate around the Pham Ngu Lao area at the western end of District 1. Cholon has plenty of cheap rooms, but Western backpackers are rare here. Travellers with a little more cash prefer the more upmarket hotels concentrated around D Dong Khoi at the eastern side of District 1. Central Saigon is the best place to look for fine Vietnamese and Western food, while Cholon's speciality is Chinese food.  
south_east_asia_vietnam_environment.html:  Environment  Vietnam borders Cambodia, Laos and China and stretches over 1600km (1000mi) along the eastern coast of the Indochinese Peninsula. The country's two main cultivated areas are the Red River Delta (15,000 sq km/5400 sq mi) in the north and the Mekong Delta (60,000 sq km/23,400 sq mi) in the south. Three-quarters of the country is mountainous and hilly; the highest peak at 3143m (10,310ft) is Fansipan in north-west Vietnam.  Vietnam is made up of equatorial lowlands, high, temperate plateaus and cooler mountainous areas. The country lies in the intertropical zone and local conditions vary from frosty winters in the far northern hills to the year-round subequatorial warmth of the Mekong Delta. At sea level, the mean annual temperature is about 27 C in the south, falling to about 21 C in the far north.  Although Vietnam has diverse wildlife, it is in precipitous decline because of the destruction of habitats, illegal hunting and pollution. Fauna includes elephants, rhinoceros, tiger, leopard, black bear, snub-nosed monkey, crocodile and turtle. Less than 30% of the country remains forest-covered, and what remains is under threat from population pressure and the growth of industry. The situation has improved since 1992, following the banning of unprocessed timber exports, education programs and reforestation projects.  Despite being little visited by travellers, Vietnam has 10 national parks and an expanding array of nature reserves. The most interesting and accessible national parks are: Cat Ba, Ba Be Lake and Cuc Phuong in the north; Bach Ma in the centre; and Nam Cat Tien and Yok Don in the south. In an attempt to prevent an ecological and hydrological catastrophe, the government has plans to improve existing parks and open up new ones.  
south_east_asia_vietnam_facts.html:  Facts for the Traveler   Visas: Bureaucratic hassles will be your first problem in getting a visa - expect delays of five days or more; Bangkok is the best place to get one. It's usually best to get your visas through a travel agency. Expense is the other problem; tourist visas valid for a single 30-day stay cost about US$40 in Bangkok.Health risks: Dengue fever, hepatitis, malaria, rabies (if in the country for a month or more), typhoid and tuberculosis (if staying with locals in a high risk area for a few months or more)Electricity: 220V and 50Hz, but 110V (also with 50Hz) may be encounteredWeights & measures: Metric with local variations When to Go  There are no good or bad seasons to visit Vietnam. When one region is wet, cold or steamy hot, there is always somewhere else that is sunny and pleasant. Basically, the south has two seasons: the wet (May to November, wettest from June to Aug+ust) and the dry (December to April). The hottest and most humid time is from the end of February to May. The central coast is dry from May to October and wet from December to February. The highland areas are significantly cooler than the lowlands, and temperatures can get down to freezing in winter. The north has two seasons: cool, damp winters (November to April) and hot summers (May to October). There is the possibility of typhoons between July and November, affecting the north and central areas.  Travellers should take the Tet New Year festival (late January or early February) into account when planning a trip. Travel (including international travel) becomes very difficult, hotels are full and many services close down for at least a week and possibly a lot longer.     Events  Special prayers are held at Vietnamese and Chinese pagodas on days when the moon is either full or the merest sliver. Many Buddhists eat only vegetarian food on these days. Some of the major religious festivals follow a lunar calendar. They include: Tet (late January or early February), the most important festival of the year, which lasts a week (with rites beginning a week earlier), marking the new lunar year; Wandering Souls Day (Trung Nguyen), held on the fifteenth day of the seventh moon (August), is the second-largest festival of the year, when offerings of food and gifts are given to the wandering souls of the forgotten dead; Tiet Doan Ngo (Summer Solstice Day) in June sees the burning of human effigies to satisfy the need for souls to serve in the God of Death's army; and Holiday of the Dead (Thanh Minh) in April commemorates deceased relatives.    
south_east_asia_vietnam_obt.html:  Off the Beaten Track  Situated on the Gulf of Thailand, 8km (5mi) from the Cambodian border, the town of Ha Tien and its surrounding area are famous for their warm-water, white-sand beaches and fishing villages. The area is also noted for its seafood, black-pepper tree plantations and towering limestone formations. The rock formations around the town support a network of caves, many of which have been turned into cave temples. Ha Tien is a 10-hour bus ride from Ho Chi Minh City. Because of uncleared land mines and booby traps, be wary of travelling off the beaten track near the Cambodian border.  
